Status Information
Currency of version
Current version for 28 April 2023 to date (accessed 13 May 2023 at 18:31)
Legislation on this site is usually updated within 3 working days after a change to the legislation.

Provisions in force
The provisions displayed in this version of the legislation have all commenced.

Notes—
Does not include amendments by
Sch 1, cl 10(4) of this Plan (Sch 1, cl 10(4) repeals Sch 1, cl 10 at the end of 2.7.2025)
State Environmental Planning Policy Amendment (Blackwattle Bay Precinct) 2022 (826) (not commenced—to commence on 9.6.2023).
Authorisation
This version of the legislation is compiled and maintained in a database of legislation by the Parliamentary Counsel's Office and published on the NSW legislation website, and is certified as the form of that legislation that is correct under section 45C of the Interpretation Act 1987.

File last modified 28 April 2023

Part 1 Preliminary
1.1   Name of Plan
This Plan is Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012.
1.1AA   Commencement
This Plan commences on the day on which it is published on the NSW legislation website.
Note—
See the historical notes for the day on which this Plan was published on the NSW legislation website.
1.2   Aims of Plan
(1)  This Plan aims to make local environmental planning provisions for land in the City of Sydney in accordance with the relevant standard environmental planning instrument under section 3.20 of the Act.
(2)  The particular aims of this Plan are as follows—
(aa)  to protect and promote the use and development of land for arts and cultural activity, including music and other performance arts,
(a)  to reinforce the role of the City of Sydney as the primary centre for Metropolitan Sydney,
(b)  to support the City of Sydney as an important location for business, educational and cultural activities and tourism,
(c)  to promote ecologically sustainable development,
(d)  to encourage the economic growth of the City of Sydney by—
(i)  providing for development at densities that permit employment to increase, and
(ii)  retaining and enhancing land used for employment purposes that are significant for the Sydney region,
(e)  to encourage the growth and diversity of the residential population of the City of Sydney by providing for a range of appropriately located housing, including affordable housing,
(f)  to enable a range of services and infrastructure that meets the needs of residents, workers and visitors,
(g)  to ensure that the pattern of land use and density in the City of Sydney reflects the existing and future capacity of the transport network and facilitates walking, cycling and the use of public transport,
(h)  to enhance the amenity and quality of life of local communities,
(i)  to provide for a range of existing and future mixed-use centres and to promote the economic strength of those centres,
(j)  to achieve a high quality urban form by ensuring that new development exhibits design excellence and reflects the existing or desired future character of particular localities,
(k)  to conserve the environmental heritage of the City of Sydney,
(l)  to protect, and to enhance the enjoyment of, the natural environment of the City of Sydney, its harbour setting and its recreation areas.
1.3   Land to which Plan applies
This Plan applies to the land identified on the Land Application Map.
1.4   Definitions
The Dictionary at the end of this Plan defines words and expressions for the purposes of this Plan.
1.5   Notes
Notes in this Plan are provided for guidance and do not form part of this Plan.
1.6   Consent authority
The consent authority for the purposes of this Plan is (subject to the Act) the Council.
Note—
The City of Sydney Act 1988 constitutes the Central Sydney Planning Committee which has and may exercise the functions of the Council under Parts 4, 5, 6 and 8 of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979 in relation to the carrying out of major development, to the exclusion of the Council.
1.7   Maps
(1)  A reference in this Plan to a named map adopted by this Plan is a reference to a map by that name—
(a)  approved by the local plan-making authority when the map is adopted, and
(b)  as amended or replaced from time to time by maps declared by environmental planning instruments to amend or replace that map, and approved by the local plan-making authority when the instruments are made.
(1AA)    (Repealed)
(2)  Any 2 or more named maps may be combined into a single map. In that case, a reference in this Plan to any such named map is a reference to the relevant part or aspect of the single map.
(3)  Any such maps are to be kept and made available for public access in accordance with arrangements approved by the Minister.
(4)  For the purposes of this Plan, a map may be in, and may be kept and made available in, electronic or paper form, or both.
Note—
The maps adopted by this Plan are to be made available on the NSW Planning Portal. Requirements relating to the maps are set out in the documents entitled Standard technical requirements for LEP maps and Standard requirements for LEP GIS data which are available on the website of the Department of Planning and Environment.
1.8   Repeal of planning instruments applying to land
(1)  All local environmental plans and deemed environmental planning instruments applying only to the land to which this Plan applies are repealed.
Note—
The following local environmental plans are repealed under this provision—
Central Sydney Local Environmental Plan 1996,
Interim Development Order No 27—Municipality of Leichhardt.
(1A)  State Environmental Planning Policy No 41—Casino Entertainment Complex is repealed.
(2)  All local environmental plans and deemed environmental planning instruments applying to the land to which this Plan applies and to other land cease to apply to the land to which this Plan applies.
(2A)  Schedule 6 is repealed on the day following the day on which this Plan is published on the NSW legislation website.
1.8A   Savings provisions relating to development applications
(1)  If a development application has been made before the commencement of this Plan in relation to land to which this Plan applies and the application has not been finally determined before that commencement, the application must be determined as if this Plan had been exhibited but had not commenced.
(2)  For the purposes of determining development application D/2012/893, lodged with Council on 13 June 2012, block 2 within the meaning of clause 52A of Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2005 is taken to include Lot 1, DP 913005.
(3)  The amendments made to this plan by Sydney Local Environmental Plan Amendment (Serviced Apartments) 2019 do not apply to a development application made but not finally determined before the commencement of those amendments.
(4)  A development application that has not been finally determined before the commencement of Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 (Amendment No 52) must be determined as if that Plan had not commenced if the application is in relation to development—
(a)  on land in Central Sydney, or
(b)  on residual land within the meaning of clause 7.13.
(5)  The amendments made to this plan by Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 (Amendment No 64) do not apply to—
(a)  a concept development application or a development application made but not finally determined before the commencement of the amendments, or
(b)  a development application made after the commencement of the amendments, if the development application is subsequent to, and made in reliance on, a concept development application in relation to the same development that was—
(i)  made but not finally determined before the commencement of the amendments, or
(ii)  granted development consent before the commencement of the amendments.
(6)  Despite subclause (5), an amount of additional floor space calculated under clause 6.4(1A) as inserted by Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 (Amendment No 64)—
(a)  applies to a development application subsequent to, and made in reliance on, a development application or concept development application made in relation to the same development, and
(b)  is calculated by reference to the additional floor space available on the date the application being relied on was made.
1.9   Application of SEPPs
(1)  This Plan is subject to the provisions of any State environmental planning policy that prevails over this Plan as provided by section 3.28 of the Act.
(2)  The following State environmental planning policies (or provisions) do not apply to the land to which this Plan applies—
(2A)  State Environmental Planning Policy (Housing) 2021, Chapter 2, Part 2, Divisions 1, 2, 3 and 5 and Chapter 3, Part 3 do not apply to—
(a)  land at Green Square or at Ultimo-Pyrmont, or
(b)  southern employment land, or
(c)  land at the Waterloo Metro Quarter, or
(d)  land in Central Sydney, or
(e)  land at 17–31 Cowper Street or 2A–2D Wentworth Park Road, Glebe, or
(f)  Botany Road Precinct Opportunity Land, or
(g)  Waterloo Estate (South)—Area 1, or
(h)  Waterloo Estate (South)—Area 2.
(2B)  State Environmental Planning Policy (Housing) 2021, Chapter 3, Part 4 does not apply to—
(a)  land at Green Square or at Ultimo-Pyrmont, or
(b)  southern employment land, or
(c)  land at the Waterloo Metro Quarter, or
(d)  land at 17–31 Cowper Street or 2A–2D Wentworth Park Road, Glebe, or
(e)  Waterloo Estate (South)—Area 1, or
(f)  Waterloo Estate (South)—Area 2.
(2C)  State Environmental Planning Policy (Housing) 2021, Chapter 2, Part 2, Division 1 does not apply to land at 600–660 Elizabeth Street, Redfern.
1.9A   Suspension of covenants, agreements and instruments
(1)  For the purpose of enabling development on land in any zone to be carried out in accordance with this Plan or with a consent granted under the Act, any agreement, covenant or other similar instrument that restricts the carrying out of that development does not apply to the extent necessary to serve that purpose.
(2)  This clause does not apply—
(a)  to a covenant imposed by the Council or that the Council requires to be imposed, or
(b)  to any relevant instrument within the meaning of section 13.4 of the Crown Land Management Act 2016, or
(c)  to any conservation agreement within the meaning of the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974, or
(d)  to any Trust agreement within the meaning of the Nature Conservation Trust Act 2001, or
(e)  to any property vegetation plan within the meaning of the Native Vegetation Act 2003, or
(f)  to any biobanking agreement within the meaning of Part 7A of the Threatened Species Conservation Act 1995, or
(g)  to any planning agreement within the meaning of Subdivision 2 of Division 7.1 of the Act, or
(h)  to land in Central Sydney.
(3)  This clause does not affect the rights or interests of any public authority under any registered instrument.
(4)  Under section 3.16 of the Act, the Governor, before the making of this clause, approved of subclauses (1)–(3).
Part 2 Permitted or prohibited development
2.1   Land use zones
The land use zones under this Plan are as follows—
Residential Zones
R1 General Residential
R2 Low Density Residential
Employment Zones
E1 Local Centre
E2 Commercial Centre
E3 Productivity Support
E4 General Industrial
Mixed Use Zones
MU1 Mixed Use
Special Purpose Zones
SP1 Special Activities
SP2 Infrastructure
SP5 Metropolitan Centre
Recreation Zones
RE1 Public Recreation
2.2   Zoning of land to which Plan applies
For the purposes of this Plan, land is within the zones shown on the Land Zoning Map.
2.3   Zone objectives and Land Use Table
(1)  The Land Use Table at the end of this Part specifies for each zone—
(a)  the objectives for development, and
(b)  development that may be carried out without development consent, and
(c)  development that may be carried out only with development consent, and
(d)  development that is prohibited.
(2)  The consent authority must have regard to the objectives for development in a zone when determining a development application in respect of land within the zone.
(3)  In the Land Use Table at the end of this Part—
(a)  a reference to a type of building or other thing is a reference to development for the purposes of that type of building or other thing, and
(b)  a reference to a type of building or other thing does not include (despite any definition in this Plan) a reference to a type of building or other thing referred to separately in the Land Use Table in relation to the same zone.
(4)  This clause is subject to the other provisions of this Plan.
Notes—
1   Schedule 1 sets out additional permitted uses for particular land.
2   Schedule 2 sets out exempt development (which is generally exempt from both Parts 4 and 5 of the Act). Development in the land use table that may be carried out without consent is nevertheless subject to the environmental assessment and approval requirements of Part 5 of the Act.
3   Schedule 3 sets out complying development (for which a complying development certificate may be issued as an alternative to obtaining development consent).
4   Clause 2.6 requires consent for subdivision of land.
5   Part 5 contains other provisions which require consent for particular development.
2.4   Unzoned land
(1)  Development may be carried out on unzoned land only with development consent.
(2)  In deciding whether to grant development consent, the consent authority—
(a)  must consider whether the development will impact on adjoining zoned land and, if so, consider the objectives for development in the zones of the adjoining land, and
(b)  must be satisfied that the development is appropriate and is compatible with permissible land uses in any such adjoining land.
2.5   Additional permitted uses for particular land
(1)  Development on particular land that is described or referred to in Schedule 1 may be carried out—
(a)  with development consent, or
(b)  if the Schedule so provides—without development consent,
in accordance with the conditions (if any) specified in that Schedule in relation to that development.
(2)  This clause has effect despite anything to the contrary in the Land Use Table or other provision of this Plan.
2.6   Subdivision—consent requirements
(1)  Land to which this Plan applies may be subdivided, but only with development consent.
Notes—
1   If a subdivision is specified as exempt development in an applicable environmental planning instrument, such as this Plan or State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008, the Act enables it to be carried out without development consent.
2   Part 6 of State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 provides that the strata subdivision of a building in certain circumstances is complying development.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted for the subdivision of land on which a secondary dwelling is situated if the subdivision would result in the principal dwelling and the secondary dwelling being situated on separate lots, unless the resulting lots are not less than the minimum size shown on the Lot Size Map in relation to that land.
Note—
The definition of secondary dwelling in the Dictionary requires the dwelling to be on the same lot of land as the principal dwelling.
2.7   Demolition requires development consent
The demolition of a building or work may be carried out only with development consent.
Note—
If the demolition of a building or work is identified in an applicable environmental planning instrument, such as this Plan or State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008, as exempt development, the Act enables it to be carried out without development consent.
2.8   Temporary use of land
(1)  The objective of this clause is to provide for the temporary use of land if the use does not compromise future development of the land, or have detrimental economic, social, amenity or environmental effects on the land.
(2)  Despite any other provision of this Plan, development consent may be granted for development on land in any zone for a temporary use for a maximum period of 52 days (whether or not consecutive days) in any period of 12 months.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the temporary use will not prejudice the subsequent carrying out of development on the land in accordance with this Plan and any other applicable environmental planning instrument, and
(b)  the temporary use will not adversely impact on any adjoining land or the amenity of the neighbourhood, and
(c)  the temporary use and location of any structures related to the use will not adversely impact on environmental attributes or features of the land, or increase the risk of natural hazards that may affect the land, and
(d)  at the end of the temporary use period the land will, as far as is practicable, be restored to the condition in which it was before the commencement of the use.
(4)  Despite subclause (2), the temporary use of a dwelling as a sales office for a new release area or a new housing estate may exceed the maximum number of days specified in that subclause.
(5)  Subclause (3)(d) does not apply to the temporary use of a dwelling as a sales office mentioned in subclause (4).
2.9   Canal estate development prohibited
(1)  Canal estate development is prohibited on land to which this Plan applies.
(2)  In this Plan, canal estate development means development that involves—
(a)  a constructed canal, or other waterway or waterbody, that—
(i)  is inundated by surface water or groundwater movement, or
(ii)  drains to a waterway or waterbody by surface water or groundwater movement, and
(b)  the erection of a dwelling, and
(c)  one or both of the following—
(i)  the use of fill material to raise the level of all or part of the land on which the dwelling will be erected to comply with requirements for residential development in the flood planning area,
(ii)  excavation to create a waterway.
(3)  Canal estate development does not include development for the purposes of drainage or the supply or treatment of water if the development is—
(a)  carried out by or with the authority of a person or body responsible for the drainage, supply or treatment, and
(b)  limited to the minimum reasonable size and capacity.
(4)  In this clause—
flood planning area has the same meaning as in clause 5.21.
Land Use Table
Note—
State environmental planning policies, including the following, may be relevant to development on land to which this Plan applies—
State Environmental Planning Policy (Housing) 2021
State Environmental Planning Policy (Transport and Infrastructure) 2021, Chapter 2—relating to infrastructure facilities, including air transport, correction, education, electricity generating works and solar energy systems, health services, ports, railways, roads, waste management and water supply systems
State Environmental Planning Policy (Resources and Energy) 2021, Chapter 2
State Environmental Planning Policy (Resilience and Hazards) 2021, Chapter 3
State Environmental Planning Policy (Industry and Employment) 2021, Chapter 3
State Environmental Planning Policy (Primary Production) 2021, Chapter 2
Zone R1   General Residential
1   Objectives of zone
•  To provide for the housing needs of the community.
•  To provide for a variety of housing types and densities.
•  To enable other land uses that provide facilities or services to meet the day to day needs of residents.
•  To maintain the existing land use pattern of predominantly residential uses.
2   Permitted without consent
Home occupations
3   Permitted with consent
Attached dwellings; Bed and breakfast accommodation; Boarding houses; Centre-based child care facilities; Community facilities; Dwelling houses; Food and drink premises; Group homes; Home industries; Horticulture; Hostels; Multi dwelling housing; Neighbourhood shops; Oyster aquaculture; Places of public worship; Pond-based aquaculture; Residential flat buildings; Respite day care centres; Roads; Roadside stalls; Semi-detached dwellings; Seniors housing; Sewage reticulation systems; Shop top housing; Shops; Tank-based aquaculture; Any other development not specified in item 2 or 4
4   Prohibited
Agriculture; Air transport facilities; Airstrips; Amusement centres; Animal boarding or training establishments; Boat building and repair facilities; Boat launching ramps; Camping grounds; Car parks; Caravan parks; Charter and tourism boating facilities; Commercial premises; Crematoria; Depots; Eco-tourist facilities; Entertainment facilities; Environmental protection works; Exhibition villages; Extractive industries; Farm buildings; Forestry; Freight transport facilities; Function centres; Heavy industrial storage establishments; Helipads; Highway service centres; Industrial retail outlets; Industries; Local distribution premises; Mooring pens; Moorings; Mortuaries; Passenger transport facilities; Port facilities; Recreation facilities (major); Recreation facilities (outdoor); Registered clubs; Research stations; Restricted premises; Rural industries; Service stations; Sewerage systems; Sex services premises; Storage premises; Tourist and visitor accommodation; Transport depots; Truck depots; Vehicle body repair workshops; Vehicle repair stations; Veterinary hospitals; Warehouse or distribution centres; Waste or resource management facilities; Water recreation structures; Water supply systems; Wholesale supplies
Zone R2   Low Density Residential
1   Objectives of zone
•  To provide for the housing needs of the community within a low density residential environment.
•  To enable other land uses that provide facilities or services to meet the day to day needs of residents.
2   Permitted without consent
Home occupations
3   Permitted with consent
Bed and breakfast accommodation; Boarding houses; Centre-based child care facilities; Community facilities; Dual occupancies; Dwelling houses; Educational establishments; Electricity generating works; Emergency services facilities; Environmental facilities; Exhibition homes; Group homes; Health consulting rooms; Home-based child care; Home businesses; Home industries; Home occupations (sex services); Horticulture; Hostels; Information and education facilities; Neighbourhood shops; Oyster aquaculture; Places of public worship; Pond-based aquaculture; Recreation areas; Respite day care centres; Roads; Roadside stalls; Seniors housing; Shop top housing; Signage; Tank-based aquaculture
4   Prohibited
Any development not specified in item 2 or 3
Zone E1   Local Centre
1   Objectives of zone
•  To provide a range of retail, business and community uses that serve the needs of people who live in, work in or visit the area.
•  To encourage investment in local commercial development that generates employment opportunities and economic growth.
•  To enable residential development that contributes to a vibrant and active local centre and is consistent with the Council’s strategic planning for residential development in the area.
•  To encourage business, retail, community and other non-residential land uses on the ground floor of buildings.
•  To maximise public transport patronage and encourage walking and cycling.
2   Permitted without consent
Nil
3   Permitted with consent
Amusement centres; Boarding houses; Centre-based child care facilities; Commercial premises; Community facilities; Entertainment facilities; Function centres; Hotel or motel accommodation; Information and education facilities; Light industries; Local distribution premises; Medical centres; Oyster aquaculture; Places of public worship; Public administration buildings; Recreation facilities (indoor); Respite day care centres; Service stations; Shop top housing; Tank-based aquaculture; Veterinary hospitals; Any other development not specified in item 2 or 4
4   Prohibited
Depots; Extractive industries; Freight transport facilities; Heavy industrial storage establishments; Industrial retail outlets; Industries; Pond-based aquaculture; Storage premises; Transport depots
Zone E2   Commercial Centre
1   Objectives of zone
•  To strengthen the role of the commercial centre as the centre of business, retail, community and cultural activity.
•  To encourage investment in commercial development that generates employment opportunities and economic growth.
•  To encourage development that has a high level of accessibility and amenity, particularly for pedestrians.
•  To enable residential development only if it is consistent with the Council’s strategic planning for residential development in the area.
•  To ensure that new development provides diverse and active street frontages to attract pedestrian traffic and to contribute to vibrant, diverse and functional streets and public spaces.
•  To provide a wide range of retail, business, office, entertainment, community and other suitable land uses that serve the needs of the local and wider community.
•  To maximise public transport patronage and encourage walking and cycling.
2   Permitted without consent
Nil
3   Permitted with consent
Amusement centres; Artisan food and drink industries; Backpackers’ accommodation; Centre-based child care facilities; Commercial premises; Community facilities; Entertainment facilities; Function centres; Horticulture; Hotel or motel accommodation; Information and education facilities; Light industries; Local distribution premises; Medical centres; Mortuaries; Oyster aquaculture; Passenger transport facilities; Places of public worship; Recreation areas; Recreation facilities (indoor); Recreation facilities (outdoor); Registered clubs; Respite day care centres; Restricted premises; Tank-based aquaculture; Vehicle repair stations; Veterinary hospitals; Waste or resource transfer stations; Any other development not specified in item 2 or 4
4   Prohibited
Agriculture; Air transport facilities; Airstrips; Animal boarding or training establishments; Boat building and repair facilities; Boat launching ramps; Boat sheds; Camping grounds; Caravan parks; Cemeteries; Charter and tourism boating facilities; Correctional centres; Crematoria; Depots; Eco-tourist facilities; Environmental protection works; Exhibition homes; Exhibition villages; Extractive industries; Farm buildings; Forestry; Freight transport facilities; Heavy industrial storage establishments; Helipads; Highway service centres; Home-based child care; Home occupations (sex services); Industrial retail outlets; Industries; Jetties; Port facilities; Recreation facilities (major); Residential accommodation; Rural industries; Sewerage systems; Sex services premises; Storage premises; Tourist and visitor accommodation; Transport depots; Truck depots; Vehicle body repair workshops; Waste or resource management facilities; Water recreation structures; Water supply systems; Wholesale supplies
Zone E3   Productivity Support
1   Objectives of zone
•  To provide a range of facilities and services, light industries, warehouses and offices.
•  To provide for land uses that are compatible with, but do not compete with, land uses in surrounding local and commercial centres.
•  To maintain the economic viability of local and commercial centres by limiting certain retail and commercial activity.
•  To provide for land uses that meet the needs of the community, businesses and industries but that are not suited to locations in other employment zones.
•  To provide opportunities for new and emerging light industries.
•  To enable other land uses that provide facilities and services to meet the day to day needs of workers, to sell goods of a large size, weight or quantity or to sell goods manufactured on-site.
•  To encourage employment opportunities.
•  To promote land uses with active street frontages.
•  To provide for land uses that support the viability of adjoining industrial land uses.
2   Permitted without consent
Nil
3   Permitted with consent
Agricultural produce industries; Animal boarding or training establishments; Boat building and repair facilities; Business premises; Centre-based child care facilities; Community facilities; Depots; Food and drink premises; Function centres; Garden centres; General industries; Hardware and building supplies; Horticulture; Hotel or motel accommodation; Industrial retail outlets; Industrial training facilities; Information and education facilities; Kiosks; Landscaping material supplies; Light industries; Local distribution premises; Markets; Mortuaries; Neighbourhood shops; Office premises; Oyster aquaculture; Passenger transport facilities; Places of public worship; Plant nurseries; Recreation areas; Recreation facilities (indoor); Recreation facilities (major); Recreation facilities (outdoor); Research stations; Respite day care centres; Roadside stalls; Rural supplies; Service stations; Shops; Specialised retail premises; Storage premises; Take away food and drink premises; Tank-based aquaculture; Timber yards; Vehicle body repair workshops; Vehicle repair stations; Vehicle sales or hire premises; Veterinary hospitals; Warehouse or distribution centres; Wholesale supplies; Any other development not specified in item 2 or 4
4   Prohibited
Agriculture; Air transport facilities; Amusement centres; Camping grounds; Caravan parks; Cemeteries; Correctional centres; Eco-tourist facilities; Exhibition homes; Exhibition villages; Extractive industries; Heavy industrial storage establishments; Helipads; Industries; Residential accommodation; Retail premises; Rural industries; Tourist and visitor accommodation; Truck depots
Zone E4   General Industrial
1   Objectives of zone
•  To provide a range of industrial, warehouse, logistics and related land uses.
•  To ensure the efficient and viable use of land for industrial uses.
•  To minimise any adverse effect of industry on other land uses.
•  To encourage employment opportunities.
•  To enable limited non-industrial land uses that provide facilities and services to meet the needs of businesses and workers.
•  To ensure land uses support the viability of nearby local centres.
•  To support and protect industrial land for industrial uses.
2   Permitted without consent
Nil
3   Permitted with consent
Agricultural produce industries; Depots; Food and drink premises; Freight transport facilities; Garden centres; General industries; Goods repair and reuse premises; Hardware and building supplies; Horticulture; Industrial retail outlets; Industrial training facilities; Kiosks; Light industries; Local distribution premises; Neighbourhood shops; Oyster aquaculture; Roadside stalls; Take away food and drink premises; Tank-based aquaculture; Timber yards; Warehouse or distribution centres; Any other development not specified in item 2 or 4
4   Prohibited
Agriculture; Air transport facilities; Airstrips; Amusement centres; Animal boarding or training establishments; Boat launching ramps; Boat sheds; Camping grounds; Car parks; Caravan parks; Cemeteries; Centre-based child care facilities; Charter and tourism boating facilities; Commercial premises; Community facilities; Correctional centres; Eco-tourist facilities; Educational establishments; Entertainment facilities; Exhibition homes; Exhibition villages; Extractive industries; Farm buildings; Forestry; Function centres; Health services facilities; Heavy industries; Helipads; Highway service centres; Home-based child care; Home businesses; Home occupations; Home occupations (sex services); Information and education facilities; Jetties; Marinas; Mooring pens; Moorings; Passenger transport facilities; Recreation facilities (indoor); Recreation facilities (major); Recreation facilities (outdoor); Registered clubs; Residential accommodation; Respite day care centres; Restricted premises; Rural industries; Self-storage units; Sex services premises; Tourist and visitor accommodation; Veterinary hospitals; Water recreation structures; Wholesale supplies
Zone MU1   Mixed Use
1   Objectives of zone
•  To encourage a diversity of business, retail, office and light industrial land uses that generate employment opportunities.
•  To ensure that new development provides diverse and active street frontages to attract pedestrian traffic and to contribute to vibrant, diverse and functional streets and public spaces.
•  To minimise conflict between land uses within this zone and land uses within adjoining zones.
•  To encourage business, retail, community and other non-residential land uses on the ground floor of buildings.
•  To ensure land uses support the viability of nearby centres.
•  To integrate suitable business, office, residential, retail and other land uses in accessible locations that maximise public transport patronage and encourage walking and cycling.
2   Permitted without consent
Home occupations
3   Permitted with consent
Amusement centres; Boarding houses; Car parks; Centre-based child care facilities; Commercial premises; Community facilities; Entertainment facilities; Function centres; Information and education facilities; Light industries; Local distribution premises; Medical centres; Oyster aquaculture; Passenger transport facilities; Places of public worship; Recreation areas; Recreation facilities (indoor); Registered clubs; Respite day care centres; Restricted premises; Shop top housing; Tank-based aquaculture; Tourist and visitor accommodation; Vehicle repair stations; Any other development not specified in item 2 or 4
4   Prohibited
Extractive industries; Heavy industrial storage establishments; Heavy industries; Pond-based aquaculture
Zone SP1   Special Activities
1   Objectives of zone
•  To provide for special land uses that are not provided for in other zones.
•  To provide for sites with special natural characteristics that are not provided for in other zones.
•  To facilitate development that is in keeping with the special characteristics of the site or its existing or intended special use, and that minimises any adverse impacts on surrounding land.
2   Permitted without consent
Nil
3   Permitted with consent
Aquaculture; Horticulture; Recreation areas; Roads; The purpose shown on the Land Zoning Map, including any development that is ordinarily incidental or ancillary to development for that purpose
4   Prohibited
Any development not specified in item 2 or 3
Zone SP2   Infrastructure
1   Objectives of zone
•  To provide for infrastructure and related uses.
•  To prevent development that is not compatible with or that may detract from the provision of infrastructure.
2   Permitted without consent
Nil
3   Permitted with consent
Aquaculture; Horticulture; Roads; Water storage facilities; Water treatment facilities; The purpose shown on the Land Zoning Map, including any development that is ordinarily incidental or ancillary to development for that purpose
4   Prohibited
Any development not specified in item 2 or 3
Zone SP5   Metropolitan Centre
1   Objectives of zone
•  To recognise and provide for the pre-eminent role of business, office, retail, entertainment and tourist premises in Australia’s participation in the global economy.
•  To provide opportunities for an intensity of land uses commensurate with Sydney’s global status.
•  To permit a diversity of compatible land uses that are characteristic of Sydney’s global status and that serve the workforce, visitors and wider community.
•  To encourage the use of alternatives to private motor vehicles, including public transport, walking and cycling.
•  To promote land uses with active street frontages within podiums that contribute to the character of the street.
•  To promote the efficient and orderly development of land in a compact urban centre.
•  To promote a diversity of commercial opportunities varying in size, type and function, including new cultural, social and community facilities.
•  To recognise the important role that central Sydney’s public spaces, streets and amenity play in a global city.
•  To promote the primary role of the zone as a centre for employment and permit residential accommodation and serviced apartments where the accommodation complements employment-generating land uses.
2   Permitted without consent
Nil
3   Permitted with consent
Centre-based child care facilities; Commercial premises; Community facilities; Educational establishments; Entertainment facilities; Function centres; Information and education facilities; Oyster aquaculture; Passenger transport facilities; Recreation facilities (indoor); Registered clubs; Respite day care centres; Restricted premises; Tank-based aquaculture; Tourist and visitor accommodation; Any other development not specified in item 2 or 4
4   Prohibited
Pond-based aquaculture
Zone RE1   Public Recreation
1   Objectives of zone
•  To enable land to be used for public open space or recreational purposes.
•  To provide a range of recreational settings and activities and compatible land uses.
•  To protect and enhance the natural environment for recreational purposes.
•  To provide links between open space areas.
•  To retain and promote access by members of the public to areas in the public domain including recreation facilities and waterways and other natural features.
•  To protect sun access to publicly accessible land.
2   Permitted without consent
Environmental protection works
3   Permitted with consent
Aquaculture; Boat launching ramps; Boat sheds; Charter and tourism boating facilities; Centre-based child care facilities; Community facilities; Electricity generating works; Emergency services facilities; Environmental facilities; Food and drink premises; Horticulture; Information and education facilities; Jetties; Kiosks; Marinas; Markets; Recreation areas; Recreation facilities (indoor); Recreation facilities (major); Recreation facilities (outdoor); Registered clubs; Research stations; Respite day care centres; Roads; Roadside stalls; Signage; Water recreation structures; Water recycling facilities; Water supply systems
4   Prohibited
Any development not specified in item 2 or 3
Part 3 Exempt and complying development
3.1   Exempt development
(1)  The objective of this clause is to identify development of minimal environmental impact as exempt development.
(2)  Development specified in Schedule 2 that meets the standards for the development contained in that Schedule and that complies with the requirements of this Part is exempt development.
(3)  To be exempt development, the development—
(a)  must meet the relevant deemed-to-satisfy provisions of the Building Code of Australia or, if there are no such relevant provisions, must be structurally adequate, and
(b)  must not, if it relates to an existing building, cause the building to contravene the Building Code of Australia, and
(c)  must not be designated development, and
(d)  must not be carried out on land that comprises, or on which there is, an item that is listed on the State Heritage Register under the Heritage Act 1977 or that is subject to an interim heritage order under the Heritage Act 1977.
(4)  Development that relates to an existing building that is classified under the Building Code of Australia as class 1b or class 2–9 is exempt development only if—
(a)  the building has a current fire safety certificate or fire safety statement, or
(b)  no fire safety measures are currently implemented, required or proposed for the building.
(5)  To be exempt development, the development must—
(a)  be installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications, if applicable, and
(b)  not involve the removal, pruning or other clearing of vegetation that requires a permit, development consent or other approval unless it is undertaken in accordance with a permit, development consent or other approval.
Note—
See State Environmental Planning Policy (Biodiversity and Conservation) 2021, Chapter 2 and the Local Land Services Act 2013, Part 5A.
(6)  A heading to an item in Schedule 2 is part of that Schedule.
3.2   Complying development
(1)  The objective of this clause is to identify development as complying development.
(2)  Development specified in Part 1 of Schedule 3 that is carried out in compliance with—
(a)  the development standards specified in relation to that development, and
(b)  the requirements of this Part,
is complying development.
Note—
See also clause 5.8(3) which provides that the conversion of fire alarms is complying development in certain circumstances.
(3)  To be complying development, the development must—
(a)  be permissible, with development consent, in the zone in which it is carried out, and
(b)  meet the relevant deemed-to-satisfy provisions of the Building Code of Australia, and
(c)  have an approval, if required by the Local Government Act 1993, from the Council for an on-site effluent disposal system if the development is undertaken on unsewered land.
(4)  A complying development certificate for development specified in Part 1 of Schedule 3 is subject to the conditions (if any) set out or referred to in Part 2 of that Schedule.
(5)  A heading to an item in Schedule 3 is part of that Schedule.
3.3   Environmentally sensitive areas excluded
(1)  Exempt or complying development must not be carried out on any environmentally sensitive area for exempt or complying development.
(2)  For the purposes of this clause—
environmentally sensitive area for exempt or complying development means any of the following—
(a)  the coastal waters of the State,
(b)  a coastal lake,
(c)  land within the coastal wetlands and littoral rainforests area (within the meaning of the Coastal Management Act 2016),
(d)  land reserved as an aquatic reserve under the Fisheries Management Act 1994 or as a marine park under the Marine Parks Act 1997,
(e)  land within a wetland of international significance declared under the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands or within a World heritage area declared under the World Heritage Convention,
(f)  land within 100 metres of land to which paragraph (c), (d) or (e) applies,
(g)  land identified in this or any other environmental planning instrument as being of high Aboriginal cultural significance or high biodiversity significance,
(h)  land reserved under the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974 or land acquired under Part 11 of that Act,
(i)  land reserved or dedicated under the Crown Land Management Act 2016 for the preservation of flora, fauna, geological formations or for other environmental protection purposes,
(j)  land that is a declared area of outstanding biodiversity value under the Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016 or declared critical habitat under Part 7A of the Fisheries Management Act 1994.
Part 4 Principal development standards
4.1   Minimum subdivision lot size
[Not adopted]
4.2   Rural subdivision
[Not applicable]
4.3   Height of buildings
(1)  The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to ensure the height of development is appropriate to the condition of the site and its context,
(b)  to ensure appropriate height transitions between new development and heritage items and buildings in heritage conservation areas or special character areas,
(c)  to promote the sharing of views outside Central Sydney,
(d)  to ensure appropriate height transitions from Central Sydney and Green Square Town Centre to adjoining areas,
(e)  in respect of Green Square—
(i)  to ensure the amenity of the public domain by restricting taller buildings to only part of a site, and
(ii)  to ensure the built form contributes to the physical definition of the street network and public spaces.
(2)  The height of a building on any land is not to exceed the maximum height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map.
Note—
No maximum height is shown for land in Area 3 on the Height of Buildings Map. The maximum height for buildings on this land are determined by the sun access planes that are taken to extend over the land by clause 6.17.
(2A)  Despite any other provision of this Plan, the maximum height of a building on land shown as Area 1 or Area 2 on the Height of Buildings Map is the height of the building on the land as at the commencement of this Plan.
4.4   Floor space ratio
(1)  The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to provide sufficient floor space to meet anticipated development needs for the foreseeable future,
(b)  to regulate the density of development, built form and land use intensity and to control the generation of vehicle and pedestrian traffic,
(c)  to provide for an intensity of development that is commensurate with the capacity of existing and planned infrastructure,
(d)  to ensure that new development reflects the desired character of the locality in which it is located and minimises adverse impacts on the amenity of that locality.
(2)  The maximum floor space ratio for a building on any land is not to exceed the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map.
4.5   Calculation of floor space ratio and site area
(1) Objectives The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to define floor space ratio,
(b)  to set out rules for the calculation of the site area of development for the purpose of applying permitted floor space ratios, including rules to—
(i)  prevent the inclusion in the site area of an area that has no significant development being carried out on it, and
(ii)  prevent the inclusion in the site area of an area that has already been included as part of a site area to maximise floor space area in another building, and
(iii)  require community land and public places to be dealt with separately.
(2) Definition of “floor space ratio” The floor space ratio of buildings on a site is the ratio of the gross floor area of all buildings within the site to the site area.
(3) Site area In determining the site area of proposed development for the purpose of applying a floor space ratio, the site area is taken to be—
(a)  if the proposed development is to be carried out on only one lot, the area of that lot, or
(b)  if the proposed development is to be carried out on 2 or more lots, the area of any lot on which the development is proposed to be carried out that has at least one common boundary with another lot on which the development is being carried out.
In addition, subclauses (4)–(7) apply to the calculation of site area for the purposes of applying a floor space ratio to proposed development.
(4) Exclusions from site area The following land must be excluded from the site area—
(a)  land on which the proposed development is prohibited, whether under this Plan or any other law,
(b)  community land or a public place (except as provided by subclause (7)).
(5) Strata subdivisions The area of a lot that is wholly or partly on top of another or others in a strata subdivision is to be included in the calculation of the site area only to the extent that it does not overlap with another lot already included in the site area calculation.
(6) Only significant development to be included The site area for proposed development must not include a lot additional to a lot or lots on which the development is being carried out unless the proposed development includes significant development on that additional lot.
(7) Certain public land to be separately considered For the purpose of applying a floor space ratio to any proposed development on, above or below community land or a public place, the site area must only include an area that is on, above or below that community land or public place, and is occupied or physically affected by the proposed development, and may not include any other area on which the proposed development is to be carried out.
(8) Existing buildings The gross floor area of any existing or proposed buildings within the vertical projection (above or below ground) of the boundaries of a site is to be included in the calculation of the total floor space for the purposes of applying a floor space ratio, whether or not the proposed development relates to all of the buildings.
(9) Covenants to prevent “double dipping” When development consent is granted to development on a site comprised of 2 or more lots, a condition of the consent may require a covenant to be registered that prevents the creation of floor area on a lot (the restricted lot) if the consent authority is satisfied that an equivalent quantity of floor area will be created on another lot only because the site included the restricted lot.
(10) Covenants affect consolidated sites If—
(a)  a covenant of the kind referred to in subclause (9) applies to any land (affected land), and
(b)  proposed development relates to the affected land and other land that together comprise the site of the proposed development,
the maximum amount of floor area allowed on the other land by the floor space ratio fixed for the site by this Plan is reduced by the quantity of floor space area the covenant prevents being created on the affected land.
(11) Definition In this clause, public place has the same meaning as it has in the Local Government Act 1993.
4.5A   Balconies on certain residential flat buildings
(1)  The consent authority may exclude the gross floor area of any existing or proposed wind-affected balcony from the calculation of the total floor space for the purposes of applying a floor space ratio if the consent authority is satisfied of the following—
(a)  the excluded balcony gross floor area does not exceed 15% of the gross floor area of the apartment to which the balcony is attached,
(b)  the wind-affected balcony is used, or designed to be used, as external open space,
(c)  the wind-affected balcony has sufficient natural ventilation,
(d)  the partial enclosure of the wind-affected balcony does not increase the apparent bulk of the building.
(2)  For the purposes of this clause, wind-affected balcony means a balcony that is—
(a)  part of a residential flat building that is over 30 metres high, and
(b)  above the level of any podium that is, or is required to be, part of the construction of the residential flat building, and
(c)  partially enclosed.
4.6   Exceptions to development standards
(1)  The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to provide an appropriate degree of flexibility in applying certain development standards to particular development,
(b)  to achieve better outcomes for and from development by allowing flexibility in particular circumstances.
(2)  Development consent may, subject to this clause, be granted for development even though the development would contravene a development standard imposed by this or any other environmental planning instrument. However, this clause does not apply to a development standard that is expressly excluded from the operation of this clause.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted for development that contravenes a development standard unless the consent authority has considered a written request from the applicant that seeks to justify the contravention of the development standard by demonstrating—
(a)  that compliance with the development standard is unreasonable or unnecessary in the circumstances of the case, and
(b)  that there are sufficient environmental planning grounds to justify contravening the development standard.
(4)  Development consent must not be granted for development that contravenes a development standard unless—
(a)  the consent authority is satisfied that—
(i)  the applicant’s written request has adequately addressed the matters required to be demonstrated by subclause (3), and
(ii)  the proposed development will be in the public interest because it is consistent with the objectives of the particular standard and the objectives for development within the zone in which the development is proposed to be carried out, and
(b)  the concurrence of the Planning Secretary has been obtained.
(5)  In deciding whether to grant concurrence, the Planning Secretary must consider—
(a)  whether contravention of the development standard raises any matter of significance for State or regional environmental planning, and
(b)  the public benefit of maintaining the development standard, and
(c)  any other matters required to be taken into consideration by the Planning Secretary before granting concurrence.
(6)  Development consent must not be granted under this clause for a subdivision of land in Zone RU1 Primary Production, Zone RU2 Rural Landscape, Zone RU3 Forestry, Zone RU4 Primary Production Small Lots, Zone RU6 Transition, Zone R5 Large Lot Residential, Zone C2 Environmental Conservation, Zone C3 Environmental Management or Zone C4 Environmental Living if—
(a)  the subdivision will result in 2 or more lots of less than the minimum area specified for such lots by a development standard, or
(b)  the subdivision will result in at least one lot that is less than 90% of the minimum area specified for such a lot by a development standard.
(7)  After determining a development application made pursuant to this clause, the consent authority must keep a record of its assessment of the factors required to be addressed in the applicant’s written request referred to in subclause (3).
(8)  This clause does not allow development consent to be granted for development that would contravene any of the following—
(a)  a development standard for complying development,
(b)  a development standard that arises, under the regulations under the Act, in connection with a commitment set out in a BASIX certificate for a building to which State Environmental Planning Policy (Building Sustainability Index: BASIX) 2004 applies or for the land on which such a building is situated,
(c)  clause 5.4,
(caa)  clause 5.5,
(ca)  clause 4.3 (Height of buildings), but only in relation to land shown as being in Area 1 or Area 2 on the Height of Buildings Map,
(cab)  clause 4.5A (Balconies on certain residential flat buildings),
(cb)  clause 5.3A (Development below ground level in Zone RE1),
(cc)  clause 6.10 (Heritage floor space),
(cd)  clause 6.11 (Utilisation of certain additional floor space requires allocation of heritage floor space),
(cda)  clause 6.11A (Temporary alternative heritage arrangements in relation to allocation of heritage floor space),
(cdb)  clause 6.16 (Erection of tall buildings in Central Sydney),
(ce)  clause 6.17 (Sun access planes),
(cf)  clause 6.18 (Overshadowing of certain public places), unless the additional overshadowing is caused by playground equipment, a shade structure, an awning, a sculpture or artwork, a community notice or a public information sign,
(cg)  clause 6.19 (View planes), except in relation to the Martin Place View of western sky view protection plane,
(cga)  clause 6.26 (AMP Circular Quay precinct),
(cgb)  clause 6.29 (58–60 Martin Place, Sydney),
(cgc)  clause 6.33 (230–238 Sussex Street, Sydney),
(cgd)  clause 6.35 (45 Murray Street, Pyrmont), but only if the development is an alteration or addition to an existing building,
(cge)  clause 6.36 (12–20 Rosebery Avenue, 22–40 Rosebery Avenue and 108 Dalmeny Avenue, Rosebery),
(cgf)  clause 6.37 (296–298 Botany Road and 284 Wyndham Street, Alexandria),
(cgg)  clause 6.41 (7–15 Randle Street, Surry Hills),
(cgh)  clause 6.42 (102–106 Dunning Avenue, Rosebery),
(cgi)  clause 6.40 (2–32 Junction Street, Forest Lodge),
(cgj)  clause 6.43 (Danks Street South Precinct),
(cgk)  clause 6.52 (1–11 Oxford Street, Paddington),
(cgl)  clause 6.55—4–22 Wentworth Avenue, Surry Hills,
(cgm)  clause 6.56—24–40 Wentworth Avenue, Surry Hills,
(cgn)  clause 6.58—187–189 Thomas Street, Haymarket,
(ch)  Division 1 of Part 7 (Car parking ancillary to other development),
(ci)  clause 6.19A (Views of Sydney Harbour),
(cj)  clause 6.21E(2) and (5) (Tower cluster areas),
(ck)  clause 6.60C—2 Chifley Square, Sydney,
(cl)  clause 6.60D—Oxford Street Cultural and Creative Precinct,
(cm)  clause 6.60E—Flinders Street and Oxford Street.
Part 5 Miscellaneous provisions
5.1   Relevant acquisition authority
(1)  The objective of this clause is to identify, for the purposes of section 3.15 of the Act, the authority of the State that will be the relevant authority to acquire land reserved for certain public purposes if the land is required to be acquired under Division 3 of Part 2 of the Land Acquisition (Just Terms Compensation) Act 1991 (the owner-initiated acquisition provisions).
Note—
If the landholder will suffer hardship if there is any delay in the land being acquired by the relevant authority, section 23 of the Land Acquisition (Just Terms Compensation) Act 1991 requires the authority to acquire the land.
(2)  The authority of the State that will be the relevant authority to acquire land, if the land is required to be acquired under the owner-initiated acquisition provisions, is the authority of the State specified below in relation to the land shown on the Land Reservation Acquisition Map (or, if an authority of the State is not specified in relation to land required to be so acquired, the authority designated or determined under those provisions).
Type of land shown on Map
Authority of the State
Zone RE1 Public Recreation and marked “Local open space”
Council
Zone RE1 Public Recreation and marked “Regional open space”
The corporation constituted under section 2.5 of the Act
Zone SP2 Infrastructure and marked “Classified road”
Transport for NSW
Zone C1 National Parks and Nature Reserves and marked “National Park”
Minister administering the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974
(3)  Development on land acquired by an authority of the State under the owner-initiated acquisition provisions may, before it is used for the purpose for which it is reserved, be carried out, with development consent, for any purpose.
5.1A   Development on land intended to be acquired for public purposes
(1)  The objective of this clause is to limit development on certain land intended to be acquired for a public purpose.
(2)  This clause applies to land shown on the Land Reservation Acquisition Map that is specified in Column 1 of the Table to this clause and that has not been acquired by the relevant authority of the State specified for the land in clause 5.1.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to any development on land to which this clause applies other than development for a purpose specified opposite that land in Column 2 of that Table.
Column 1
Column 2
Land
Development
Zone SP2 Infrastructure and marked “Classified road”
Earthworks, Roads
5.2   Classification and reclassification of public land
(1)  The objective of this clause is to enable the Council to classify or reclassify public land as “operational land” or “community land” in accordance with Part 2 of Chapter 6 of the Local Government Act 1993.
Note—
Under the Local Government Act 1993, “public land” is generally land vested in or under the control of a council (other than roads and certain Crown land). The classification or reclassification of public land may also be made by a resolution of the Council under section 31, 32 or 33 of the Local Government Act 1993. Section 30 of that Act enables this Plan to discharge trusts on which public reserves are held if the land is reclassified under this Plan as operational land.
(2)  The public land described in Part 1 or Part 2 of Schedule 4 is classified, or reclassified, as operational land for the purposes of the Local Government Act 1993.
(3)  The public land described in Part 3 of Schedule 4 is classified, or reclassified, as community land for the purposes of the Local Government Act 1993.
(4)  The public land described in Part 1 of Schedule 4—
(a)  does not cease to be a public reserve to the extent (if any) that it is a public reserve, and
(b)  continues to be affected by any trusts, estates, interests, dedications, conditions, restrictions or covenants that affected the land before its classification, or reclassification, as operational land.
(5)  The public land described in Part 2 of Schedule 4, to the extent (if any) that it is a public reserve, ceases to be a public reserve when the description of the land is inserted into that Part and is discharged from all trusts, estates, interests, dedications, conditions, restrictions and covenants affecting the land or any part of the land, except—
(a)  those (if any) specified for the land in Column 3 of Part 2 of Schedule 4, and
(b)  any reservations that except land out of the Crown grant relating to the land, and
(c)  reservations of minerals (within the meaning of the Crown Land Management Act 2016).
Note—
In accordance with section 30(2) of the Local Government Act 1993, the approval of the Governor to subclause (5) applying to the public land concerned is required before the description of the land is inserted in Part 2 of Schedule 4.
5.3   Development near zone boundaries
(1)  The objective of this clause is to provide flexibility where the investigation of a site and its surroundings reveals that a use allowed on the other side of a zone boundary would enable a more logical and appropriate development of the site and be compatible with the planning objectives and land uses for the adjoining zone.
(2)  This clause applies to so much of any land that is within the relevant distance of a boundary between any 2 zones. The relevant distance is 6 metres from any land in Zone SP1 Special Activities or Zone SP2 Infrastructure.
(3)  This clause does not apply to—
(a)  land in Zone RE1 Public Recreation, Zone C1 National Parks and Nature Reserves, Zone C2 Environmental Conservation, Zone C3 Environmental Management or Zone W1 Natural Waterways, or
(b)  land within the coastal zone, or
(c)  land proposed to be developed for the purpose of sex services or restricted premises.
(4)  Despite the provisions of this Plan relating to the purposes for which development may be carried out, development consent may be granted to development of land to which this clause applies for any purpose that may be carried out in the adjoining zone, but only if the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the development is not inconsistent with the objectives for development in both zones, and
(b)  the carrying out of the development is desirable due to compatible land use planning, infrastructure capacity and other planning principles relating to the efficient and timely development of land.
(5)  This clause does not prescribe a development standard that may be varied under this Plan.
5.3A   Development below ground level in Zone RE1
(1)  This clause applies to development—
(a)  that is entirely below ground level (existing) on land in Zone RE1 Public Recreation (the Public Recreation Zone), and
(b)  that is for a purpose that may be carried out in a zone that adjoins the Public Recreation Zone.
(2)  Despite any other provision of this Plan relating to the purposes for which development may be carried out, development consent may be granted to development to which this clause applies if the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the carrying out of the development is desirable due to compatible land use planning, infrastructure capacity and other planning principles relating to the efficient and timely development of land, and
(b)  the development will not have any significant adverse effects on the environment and will not prevent any land within the Public Recreation Zone being used for recreational purposes.
5.4   Controls relating to miscellaneous permissible uses
(1) Bed and breakfast accommodation If development for the purposes of bed and breakfast accommodation is permitted under this Plan, the accommodation that is provided to guests must consist of no more than 3 bedrooms.
Note—
Any such development that provides for a certain number of guests or rooms may involve a change in the class of building under the Building Code of Australia.
(2) Home businesses If development for the purposes of a home business is permitted under this Plan, the carrying on of the business must not involve the use of more than 45 square metres of floor area.
(3) Home industries If development for the purposes of a home industry is permitted under this Plan, the carrying on of the home industry must not involve the use of more than 45 square metres of floor area.
(4) Industrial retail outlets If development for the purposes of an industrial retail outlet is permitted under this Plan, the retail floor area must not exceed—
(a)  20% of the gross floor area of the industry or rural industry located on the same land as the retail outlet, or
(b)  400 square metres,
whichever is the lesser.
(5) Farm stay accommodation If development for the purposes of farm stay accommodation is permitted under this Plan, the accommodation that is provided to guests must consist of no more than 3 bedrooms in buildings.
(6) Kiosks If development for the purposes of a kiosk is permitted under this Plan, the gross floor area must not exceed 20 square metres.
(7) Neighbourhood shops If development for the purposes of a neighbourhood shop is permitted under this Plan, the retail floor area must not exceed 80 square metres.
(7AA) Neighbourhood supermarkets If development for the purposes of a neighbourhood supermarket is permitted under this Plan, the gross floor area must not exceed 1,000 square metres.
(8) Roadside stalls If development for the purposes of a roadside stall is permitted under this Plan, the gross floor area must not exceed 8 square metres.
(9) Secondary dwellings on land other than land in a rural zone If development for the purposes of a secondary dwelling is permitted under this Plan on land other than land in a rural zone, the total floor area of the dwelling, excluding any area used for parking, must not exceed whichever of the following is the greater—
(a)  60 square metres,
(b)  30% of the total floor area of the principal dwelling.
(10) Artisan food and drink industry exclusion If development for the purposes of an artisan food and drink industry is permitted under this Plan in Zone E3 Productivity Support, Zone E4 General Industrial, Zone E5 Heavy Industrial, Zone W4 Working Waterfront or a rural zone, the floor area used for retail sales (not including any cafe or restaurant area) must not exceed—
(a)  20% of the gross floor area of the industry, or
(b)  400 square metres,
whichever is the lesser.
5.5   Controls relating to secondary dwellings on land in a rural zone
[Not adopted]
5.6   Architectural roof features
(1)  The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to allow minor architectural roof features to exceed height limits,
(b)  to ensure that any architectural roof feature does not cause an adverse visual impact or adversely affect the amenity of neighbouring premises,
(c)  to ensure that architectural roof features are considered in the design of a building and form an integral part of a building’s design.
(2)  Development that includes an architectural roof feature that exceeds, or causes a building to exceed, the height limits set by this Plan may be carried out, but only with development consent.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to any such development unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the architectural roof feature—
(i)  comprises a decorative element on the uppermost portion of a building, and
(ii)  is not an advertising structure, and
(iii)  does not include floor space area and is not reasonably capable of modification to include floor space area, and
(iv)  will cause minimal overshadowing, and
(b)  any building identification signage or equipment for servicing the building (such as plant, lift motor rooms, fire stairs and the like) contained in or supported by the roof feature is fully integrated into the design of the roof feature.
5.7   Development below mean high water mark
(1)  The objective of this clause is to ensure appropriate environmental assessment for development carried out on land covered by tidal waters.
(2)  Development consent is required to carry out development on any land below the mean high water mark of any body of water subject to tidal influence (including the bed of any such water).
5.8   Conversion of fire alarms
(1)  This clause applies to a fire alarm system that can be monitored by Fire and Rescue NSW or by a private service provider.
(2)  The following development may be carried out, but only with development consent—
(a)  converting a fire alarm system from connection with the alarm monitoring system of Fire and Rescue NSW to connection with the alarm monitoring system of a private service provider,
(b)  converting a fire alarm system from connection with the alarm monitoring system of a private service provider to connection with the alarm monitoring system of another private service provider,
(c)  converting a fire alarm system from connection with the alarm monitoring system of a private service provider to connection with a different alarm monitoring system of the same private service provider.
(3)  Development to which subclause (2) applies is complying development if it consists only of—
(a)  internal alterations to a building, or
(b)  internal alterations to a building together with the mounting of an antenna, and any support structure, on an external wall or roof of a building so as to occupy a space of not more than 450mm × 100mm × 100mm.
(4)  A complying development certificate for any such complying development is subject to a condition that any building work may only be carried out between 7.00 am and 6.00 pm on Monday to Friday and between 7.00 am and 5.00 pm on Saturday, and must not be carried out on a Sunday or a public holiday.
(5)  In this clause—
private service provider means a person or body that has entered into an agreement that is in force with Fire and Rescue NSW to monitor fire alarm systems.
5.9   Dwelling house or secondary dwelling affected by natural disaster
[Not adopted]
5.9AA   (Repealed)
5.10   Heritage conservation
Note—
Heritage items (if any) are listed and described in Schedule 5. Heritage conservation areas (if any) are shown on the Heritage Map as well as being described in Schedule 5.
(1) Objectives The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to conserve the environmental heritage of the City of Sydney,
(b)  to conserve the heritage significance of heritage items and heritage conservation areas, including associated fabric, settings and views,
(c)  to conserve archaeological sites,
(d)  to conserve Aboriginal objects and Aboriginal places of heritage significance.
(2) Requirement for consent Development consent is required for any of the following—
(a)  demolishing or moving any of the following or altering the exterior of any of the following (including, in the case of a building, making changes to its detail, fabric, finish or appearance)—
(i)  a heritage item,
(ii)  an Aboriginal object,
(iii)  a building, work, relic or tree within a heritage conservation area,
(b)  altering a heritage item that is a building by making structural changes to its interior or by making changes to anything inside the item that is specified in Schedule 5 in relation to the item,
(c)  disturbing or excavating an archaeological site while knowing, or having reasonable cause to suspect, that the disturbance or excavation will or is likely to result in a relic being discovered, exposed, moved, damaged or destroyed,
(d)  disturbing or excavating an Aboriginal place of heritage significance,
(e)  erecting a building on land—
(i)  on which a heritage item is located or that is within a heritage conservation area, or
(ii)  on which an Aboriginal object is located or that is within an Aboriginal place of heritage significance,
(f)  subdividing land—
(i)  on which a heritage item is located or that is within a heritage conservation area, or
(ii)  on which an Aboriginal object is located or that is within an Aboriginal place of heritage significance.
(3) When consent not required However, development consent under this clause is not required if—
(a)  the applicant has notified the consent authority of the proposed development and the consent authority has advised the applicant in writing before any work is carried out that it is satisfied that the proposed development—
(i)  is of a minor nature or is for the maintenance of the heritage item, Aboriginal object, Aboriginal place of heritage significance or archaeological site or a building, work, relic, tree or place within the heritage conservation area, and
(ii)  would not adversely affect the heritage significance of the heritage item, Aboriginal object, Aboriginal place, archaeological site or heritage conservation area, or
(b)  the development is in a cemetery or burial ground and the proposed development—
(i)  is the creation of a new grave or monument, or excavation or disturbance of land for the purpose of conserving or repairing monuments or grave markers, and
(ii)  would not cause disturbance to human remains, relics, Aboriginal objects in the form of grave goods, or to an Aboriginal place of heritage significance, or
(c)  the development is limited to the removal of a tree or other vegetation that the Council is satisfied is a risk to human life or property, or
(d)  the development is exempt development.
(4) Effect of proposed development on heritage significance The consent authority must, before granting consent under this clause in respect of a heritage item or heritage conservation area, consider the effect of the proposed development on the heritage significance of the item or area concerned. This subclause applies regardless of whether a heritage management document is prepared under subclause (5) or a heritage conservation management plan is submitted under subclause (6).
(5) Heritage assessment The consent authority may, before granting consent to any development—
(a)  on land on which a heritage item is located, or
(b)  on land that is within a heritage conservation area, or
(c)  on land that is within the vicinity of land referred to in paragraph (a) or (b),
require a heritage management document to be prepared that assesses the extent to which the carrying out of the proposed development would affect the heritage significance of the heritage item or heritage conservation area concerned.
(6) Heritage conservation management plans The consent authority may require, after considering the heritage significance of a heritage item and the extent of change proposed to it, the submission of a heritage conservation management plan before granting consent under this clause.
(7) Archaeological sites The consent authority must, before granting consent under this clause to the carrying out of development on an archaeological site (other than land listed on the State Heritage Register or to which an interim heritage order under the Heritage Act 1977 applies)—
(a)  notify the Heritage Council of its intention to grant consent, and
(b)  take into consideration any response received from the Heritage Council within 28 days after the notice is sent.
(8) Aboriginal places of heritage significance The consent authority must, before granting consent under this clause to the carrying out of development in an Aboriginal place of heritage significance—
(a)  consider the effect of the proposed development on the heritage significance of the place and any Aboriginal object known or reasonably likely to be located at the place by means of an adequate investigation and assessment (which may involve consideration of a heritage impact statement), and
(b)  notify the local Aboriginal communities, in writing or in such other manner as may be appropriate, about the application and take into consideration any response received within 28 days after the notice is sent.
(9) Demolition of nominated State heritage items The consent authority must, before granting consent under this clause for the demolition of a nominated State heritage item—
(a)  notify the Heritage Council about the application, and
(b)  take into consideration any response received from the Heritage Council within 28 days after the notice is sent.
(10) Conservation incentives The consent authority may grant consent to development for any purpose of a building that is a heritage item or of the land on which such a building is erected, or for any purpose on an Aboriginal place of heritage significance, even though development for that purpose would otherwise not be allowed by this Plan, if the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the conservation of the heritage item or Aboriginal place of heritage significance is facilitated by the granting of consent, and
(b)  the proposed development is in accordance with a heritage management document that has been approved by the consent authority, and
(c)  the consent to the proposed development would require that all necessary conservation work identified in the heritage management document is carried out, and
(d)  the proposed development would not adversely affect the heritage significance of the heritage item, including its setting, or the heritage significance of the Aboriginal place of heritage significance, and
(e)  the proposed development would not have any significant adverse effect on the amenity of the surrounding area.
5.11   Bush fire hazard reduction
Bush fire hazard reduction work authorised by the Rural Fires Act 1997 may be carried out on any land without development consent.
Note—
The Rural Fires Act 1997 also makes provision relating to the carrying out of development on bush fire prone land.
5.12   Infrastructure development and use of existing buildings of the Crown
(1)  This Plan does not restrict or prohibit, or enable the restriction or prohibition of, the carrying out of any development, by or on behalf of a public authority, that is permitted to be carried out with or without development consent, or that is exempt development, under State Environmental Planning Policy (Transport and Infrastructure) 2021, Chapter 2.
(2)  This Plan does not restrict or prohibit, or enable the restriction or prohibition of, the use of existing buildings of the Crown by the Crown.
5.13   Eco-tourist facilities
(1)  The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to maintain the environmental and cultural values of land on which development for the purposes of eco-tourist facilities is carried out,
(b)  to provide for sensitively designed and managed eco-tourist facilities that have minimal impact on the environment both on and off-site.
(2)  This clause applies if development for the purposes of an eco-tourist facility is permitted with development consent under this Plan.
(3)  The consent authority must not grant consent under this Plan to carry out development for the purposes of an eco-tourist facility unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  there is a demonstrated connection between the development and the ecological, environmental and cultural values of the site or area, and
(b)  the development will be located, constructed, managed and maintained so as to minimise any impact on, and to conserve, the natural environment, and
(c)  the development will enhance an appreciation of the environmental and cultural values of the site or area, and
(d)  the development will promote positive environmental outcomes and any impact on watercourses, soil quality, heritage and native flora and fauna will be minimal, and
(e)  the site will be maintained (or regenerated where necessary) to ensure the continued protection of natural resources and enhancement of the natural environment, and
(f)  waste generation during construction and operation will be avoided and that any waste will be appropriately removed, and
(g)  the development will be located to avoid visibility above ridgelines and against escarpments and from watercourses and that any visual intrusion will be minimised through the choice of design, colours, materials and landscaping with local native flora, and
(h)  any infrastructure services to the site will be provided without significant modification to the environment, and
(i)  any power and water to the site will, where possible, be provided through the use of passive heating and cooling, renewable energy sources and water efficient design, and
(j)  the development will not adversely affect the agricultural productivity of adjoining land, and
(k)  the following matters are addressed or provided for in a management strategy for minimising any impact on the natural environment—
(i)  measures to remove any threat of serious or irreversible environmental damage,
(ii)  the maintenance (or regeneration where necessary) of habitats,
(iii)  efficient and minimal energy and water use and waste output,
(iv)  mechanisms for monitoring and reviewing the effect of the development on the natural environment,
(v)  maintaining improvements on an on-going basis in accordance with relevant ISO 14000 standards relating to management and quality control.
5.14   Siding Spring Observatory—maintaining dark sky
[Not adopted]
5.15   Defence communications facility
[Not adopted]
5.16   Subdivision of, or dwellings on, land in certain rural, residential or conservation zones
[Not applicable]
5.17   Artificial waterbodies in environmentally sensitive areas in areas of operation of irrigation corporations
[Not applicable]
5.18   Intensive livestock agriculture
(1)  The objectives of this clause are—
(a)  to ensure appropriate environmental assessment of development for the purpose of intensive livestock agriculture that is permitted with consent under this Plan, and
(b)  to provide for certain capacity thresholds below which development consent is not required for that development subject to certain restrictions as to location.
(2)  This clause applies if development for the purpose of intensive livestock agriculture is permitted with consent under this Plan.
(3)  In determining whether or not to grant development consent under this Plan to development for the purpose of intensive livestock agriculture, the consent authority must take the following into consideration—
(a)  the adequacy of the information provided in the statement of environmental effects or (if the development is designated development) the environmental impact statement accompanying the development application,
(b)  the potential for odours to adversely impact on the amenity of residences or other land uses within the vicinity of the site,
(c)  the potential for the pollution of surface water and ground water,
(d)  the potential for the degradation of soils,
(e)  the measures proposed to mitigate any potential adverse impacts,
(f)  the suitability of the site in the circumstances,
(g)  whether the applicant has indicated an intention to comply with relevant industry codes of practice for the health and welfare of animals,
(h)  the consistency of the proposal with, and any reasons for departing from, the environmental planning and assessment aspects of any guidelines for the establishment and operation of relevant types of intensive livestock agriculture published, and made available to the consent authority, by the Department of Primary Industries (within the Department of Industry) and approved by the Planning Secretary.
(4)  Despite any other provision of this Plan, development for the purpose of intensive livestock agriculture may be carried out without development consent if—
(a)  the development is of a type specified in subclause (5), and
(b)  the consent authority is satisfied that the development will not be located—
(i)  in an environmentally sensitive area, or
(ii)  within 100 metres of a natural watercourse, or
(iii)  in a drinking water catchment, or
(iv)  within 500 metres of any dwelling that is not associated with the development, or a residential zone, or
(v)  for a poultry farm used for breeding poultry—within 5km of another poultry farm, or
(vi)  for a poultry farm not used for breeding poultry—
(A)  within 5km of a poultry farm used for breeding poultry, or
(B)  within 1km of a poultry farm not used for breeding poultry, or
(vii)  for a pig farm—within 3km of another pig farm.
(5)  The following types of development are specified for the purposes of subclause (4)—
(a)  a cattle feedlot having a capacity to accommodate fewer than 50 head of cattle,
(b)  a goat feedlot having a capacity to accommodate fewer than 200 goats,
(c)  a sheep feedlot having a capacity to accommodate fewer than 200 sheep,
(d)  a pig farm having a capacity to accommodate fewer than 20 breeding sows, or fewer than 200 pigs (of which fewer than 20 may be breeding sows),
(e)  a dairy (restricted) having a capacity to accommodate fewer than 50 dairy cows,
(f)  a poultry farm having a capacity to accommodate fewer than 1,000 birds for meat or egg production (or both).
(6)  For the avoidance of doubt, subclause (4) does not apply to development that is prohibited or that may be carried out without development consent under this or any other environmental planning instrument.
(7)  In this clause—
environmentally sensitive area has the same meaning as in clause 1.5 of State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008.
residential zone means Zone RU4 Primary Production Small Lots, Zone RU5 Village, Zone RU6 Transition, Zone R1 General Residential, Zone R2 Low Density Residential, Zone R3 Medium Density Residential, Zone R4 High Density Residential, Zone R5 Large Lot Residential, Zone E3 Productivity Support, Zone MU1 Mixed Use, Zone C3 Environmental Management or Zone C4 Environmental Living.
5.19   Pond-based, tank-based and oyster aquaculture
(1) Objectives The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to encourage sustainable oyster, pond-based and tank-based aquaculture in the State, namely, aquaculture development that uses, conserves and enhances the community’s resources so that the total quality of life now and in the future can be preserved and enhanced,
(b)  to set out the minimum site location and operational requirements for permissible pond-based and tank-based aquaculture development.
(2) Pond-based or tank-based aquaculture—matters of which consent authority must be satisfied before granting consent The consent authority must not grant development consent to carry out development for the purpose of pond-based aquaculture or tank-based aquaculture unless the consent authority is satisfied of the following—
(a)  that the development complies with the site location and operational requirements set out in Part 1 of Schedule 6 for the development,
(b)  in the case of—
(i)  pond-based aquaculture in Zone RU5 Village, Zone RU6 Transition, Zone R1 General Residential, Zone R2 Low Density Residential, Zone R3 Medium Density Residential, Zone R4 High Density Residential, Zone R5 Large Lot Residential, Zone E1 Local Centre, Zone E2 Commercial Centre, Zone E3 Productivity Support, Zone E4 General Industrial, Zone E5 Heavy Industrial or Zone MU1 Mixed Use—that the development is for the purpose of small scale aquarium fish production, and
(ii)  pond-based aquaculture in Zone C3 Environmental Management or Zone C4 Environmental Living—that the development is for the purpose of extensive aquaculture, and
(iii)  tank-based aquaculture in Zone R1 General Residential, Zone R2 Low Density Residential, Zone R3 Medium Density Residential, Zone R4 High Density Residential, Zone R5 Large Lot Residential, Zone C3 Environmental Management or Zone C4 Environmental Living—that the development is for the purpose of small scale aquarium fish production, and
(iv)  pond-based aquaculture or tank-based aquaculture in Zone W1 Natural Waterways, Zone W2 Recreational Waterways or Zone W3 Working Waterways—that the development will use waterways to source water.
(3)  The requirements set out in Part 1 of Schedule 6 are minimum requirements and do not limit the matters a consent authority is required to take into consideration under the Act or the conditions that it may impose on any development consent.
(4) Extensive pond-based aquaculture permitted without consent in certain zones Development for the purpose of pond-based aquaculture, that is also extensive aquaculture, may be carried out without development consent if—
(a)  the development is carried out in Zone RU1 Primary Production, Zone RU2 Rural Landscape, Zone RU3 Forestry, Zone RU4 Primary Production Small Lots or Zone RU6 Transition, and
(b)  the development complies with the site location requirements and operational requirements set out in Part 2 of Schedule 6.
(5) Oyster aquaculture—additional matters that consent authority must consider in determining a development application In determining a development application for development for the purpose of oyster aquaculture, the consent authority must consider—
(a)  any provisions of any aquaculture industry development plan that are relevant to the subject of the development application, and
(b)  the NSW Oyster Industry Sustainable Aquaculture Strategy.
(6) Oyster aquaculture permitted without consent in priority oyster aquaculture areas Development for the purpose of oyster aquaculture may be carried out without development consent—
(a)  on land that is wholly within a priority oyster aquaculture area, or
(b)  on land that is partly within and partly outside a priority oyster aquaculture area, but only if the land outside the area is no more than 0.1 hectare in area.
(7) Definitions In this clause—
aquaculture industry development plan means an aquaculture industry development plan published under Part 6 of the Fisheries Management Act 1994.
extensive aquaculture has the same meaning as in the Fisheries Management (Aquaculture) Regulation 2017.
NSW Oyster Industry Sustainable Aquaculture Strategy means the third edition of the publication of that title, as published in 2016 by the Department of Primary Industries (within the Department of Industry).
priority oyster aquaculture area means an area identified as a priority oyster aquaculture area on a map referred to in Chapter 5.3 of the NSW Oyster Industry Sustainable Aquaculture Strategy, being a map a copy of which is held in the head office of the Department of Primary Industries (within the Department of Industry) and published on that Department’s website.
5.20   Standards that cannot be used to refuse consent—playing and performing music
(1)  The consent authority must not refuse consent to development in relation to licensed premises on the following grounds—
(a)  the playing or performance of music, including the following—
(i)  the genre of music played or performed, or
(ii)  whether the music played or performed is live or amplified, or
(iii)  whether the music played or performed is original music, or
(iv)  the number of musicians or live entertainment acts playing or performing, or
(v)  the type of instruments played,
(b)  whether dancing occurs,
(c)  the presence or use of a dance floor or another area ordinarily used for dancing,
(d)  the direction in which a stage for players or performers faces,
(e)  the decorations to be used, including, for example, mirror balls, or lighting used by players or performers.
(2)  The consent authority must not refuse consent to development in relation to licensed premises on the grounds of noise caused by the playing or performance of music, if the consent authority is satisfied the noise may be managed and minimised to an acceptable level.
(3)  In this clause—
licensed premises has the same meaning as in the Liquor Act 2007.
5.21   Flood planning
(1)  The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to minimise the flood risk to life and property associated with the use of land,
(b)  to allow development on land that is compatible with the flood function and behaviour on the land, taking into account projected changes as a result of climate change,
(c)  to avoid adverse or cumulative impacts on flood behaviour and the environment,
(d)  to enable the safe occupation and efficient evacuation of people in the event of a flood.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development on land the consent authority considers to be within the flood planning area unless the consent authority is satisfied the development—
(a)  is compatible with the flood function and behaviour on the land, and
(b)  will not adversely affect flood behaviour in a way that results in detrimental increases in the potential flood affectation of other development or properties, and
(c)  will not adversely affect the safe occupation and efficient evacuation of people or exceed the capacity of existing evacuation routes for the surrounding area in the event of a flood, and
(d)  incorporates appropriate measures to manage risk to life in the event of a flood, and
(e)  will not adversely affect the environment or cause avoidable erosion, siltation, destruction of riparian vegetation or a reduction in the stability of river banks or watercourses.
(3)  In deciding whether to grant development consent on land to which this clause applies, the consent authority must consider the following matters—
(a)  the impact of the development on projected changes to flood behaviour as a result of climate change,
(b)  the intended design and scale of buildings resulting from the development,
(c)  whether the development incorporates measures to minimise the risk to life and ensure the safe evacuation of people in the event of a flood,
(d)  the potential to modify, relocate or remove buildings resulting from development if the surrounding area is impacted by flooding or coastal erosion.
(4)  A word or expression used in this clause has the same meaning as it has in the Considering Flooding in Land Use Planning Guideline unless it is otherwise defined in this clause.
(5)  In this clause—
Considering Flooding in Land Use Planning Guideline means the Considering Flooding in Land Use Planning Guideline published on the Department’s website on 14 July 2021.
flood planning area has the same meaning as it has in the Floodplain Development Manual.
Floodplain Development Manual means the Floodplain Development Manual(ISBN 0 7347 5476 0) published by the NSW Government in April 2005.
5.22   Special flood considerations
[Not adopted]
5.23   Public bushland
(1)  The objective of this clause is to protect and ensure the ecological viability of bushland, including rehabilitated areas in urban areas, by—
(a)  preserving biodiversity, habitat corridors and links between public bushland and other nearby bushland, and
(b)  preserving bushland as a natural stabiliser of the soil surface, and
(c)  preserving existing hydrological landforms, processes and functions, including natural drainage lines, watercourses, wetlands and foreshores, and
(d)  preserving the recreational, educational, scientific, aesthetic, environmental, ecological and cultural values and potential of bushland, and
(e)  mitigating disturbance caused by development.
(2)  Development that will disturb, or is reasonably likely to disturb, public bushland is permitted with development consent.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to development that will disturb, or is reasonably likely to disturb, public bushland unless the consent authority is satisfied of the following—
(a)  the disturbance of the bushland is essential for a purpose in the public interest,
(b)  there is no reasonable alternative to the disturbance,
(c)  the development minimises the amount of bushland to be disturbed,
(d)  the development includes measures to remediate the disturbed bushland.
(4)  Despite subclause (2), development that will disturb, or is reasonably likely to disturb, public bushland is permitted without development consent if the development is for the following purposes—
(a)  the construction, operation or maintenance of pipelines to carry water, sewerage or gas or pipelines licensed under the Pipelines Act 1967,
(b)  the construction, operation or maintenance of electricity or telecommunication lines,
(c)  bush fire hazard reduction,
(d)  the construction or maintenance of classified roads,
(e)  facilitating the recreational use of the public bushland.
(5)  Development specified in subclause (4)(e) is permitted without development consent only if it is carried out in accordance with a plan of management for the public bushland, adopted by the Council in the same way a plan of management is required to be adopted for community land under the Local Government Act 1993, Chapter 6, Part 2, Division 2, that includes measures for the following—
(a)  the recreational use of the land,
(b)  bush fire hazard reduction,
(c)  the prevention of degradation, including the alteration of drainage patterns, rubbish dumping, vehicle intrusion and infestation with weeds or non-native plants,
(d)  the remediation of degraded public bushland.
(6)  This clause does not require development consent for clearing of native vegetation if the clearing is of a kind that is authorised under the Local Land Services Act 2013, section 60O.
(7)  In deciding whether to grant development consent to development on land adjoining public bushland, the consent authority must consider the following—
(a)  the need to retain public bushland adjoining the site of the development,
(b)  the likely effect of the development on public bushland, including the following—
(i)  the erosion of soil,
(ii)  the siltation of streams and waterways,
(iii)  the spread of weeds and non-native plants within public bushland,
(c)  other matters the consent authority considers relevant to the protection and preservation of public bushland.
(8)  This clause does not apply to the following land that is public bushland—
(a)  land in Zone RU1, RU2, RU3, RU4 or RU5,
(b)  land reserved, dedicated or acquired under the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974,
(c)  land within a State forest, flora reserve or timber reserve within the meaning of the Forestry Act 2012,
(d)  land to which State Environmental Planning Policy (Precincts—Western Parkland City) 2021, Chapter 7 applies.
(9)  In this clause—
disturb public bushland means—
(a)  remove vegetation from public bushland, or
(b)  cause a change in the natural ecology of public bushland that results in the destruction or degradation of the public bushland.
non-native plant means a plant that is not native vegetation.
public bushland means land—
(a)  on which there is vegetation that is—
(i)  a remainder of the natural vegetation of the land, or
(ii)  representative of the structure and floristics of the natural vegetation of the land, and
(b)  that is owned, managed or reserved for open space or environmental conservation by the Council or a public authority.
5.24   Farm stay accommodation
[Not adopted]
5.25   Farm gate premises
[Not adopted]
Part 6 Local provisions—height and floor space
Division 1 Floor space in Central Sydney
Subdivision 1 Preliminary
6.1   Objective of Division
The objectives of this Division are as follows—
(a)  to provide for additional floor space to be granted as an incentive for certain development in Central Sydney,
(b)  to establish a framework for the transfer of development potential from the site of a heritage building to another site in Central Sydney.
6.2   Definitions
In this Division—
accommodation floor space—see clause 6.4.
Area means an Area shown on the Floor Space Ratio Map.
car parking reduction floor space—see clause 6.5.
end of journey floor space—see clause 6.6.
entertainment and club floor space—see clause 6.7.
heritage floor space—see clause 6.10.
lanes development floor space—see clause 6.8.
opportunity site means land identified as an opportunity site on the Opportunity Sites Map.
opportunity site floor space—see clause 6.9.
shared loading dock facility floor space—see clause 6.5A.
6.3   Additional floor space in Central Sydney
(1)  Despite clause 4.4, the gross floor area of a building on land in Central Sydney may exceed the maximum permitted as a result of the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map by an amount no greater than the sum of any one or more of the following for which the building may be eligible—
(a)  any accommodation floor space,
(b)  any amount determined by the consent authority under clause 6.21D(3) or 6.21E,
(c)  any car parking reduction floor space, shared loading dock facility floor space, end of journey floor space, entertainment and club floor space, lanes development floor space or opportunity site floor space.
(d)–(f)    (Repealed)
(2)  Development consent must not be granted for BASIX affected development in Central Sydney that includes additional floor space calculated in accordance with subclause (1), unless the consent authority is satisfied the BASIX affected part of the building—
(a)  exceeds the BASIX commitment for water by at least 5 points, and
(b)  exceeds the BASIX commitment for energy by at least 10 points.
Subdivision 2 Types of additional floor space
6.4   Accommodation floor space
(1)  A building that is in an Area, and is used for a purpose specified in relation to the Area in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g), is eligible for an amount of additional floor space (accommodation floor space) equivalent to that which may be achieved by applying to the building the floor space ratio specified in the relevant paragraph—
(a)  Area 1, hotel or motel accommodation, community facilities or centre-based child care facilities—6:1,
(b)  Area 1, business premises, educational establishments, entertainment facilities, function centres, health services facilities, information and education facilities, light industries, office premises or retail premises—4.5:1,
(c)  Area 2, business premises, educational establishments, entertainment facilities, function centres, health services facilities, information and education facilities, light industries, office premises or retail premises—4.5:1,
(d)  Area 2, centre-based child care facilities, community facilities or hotel or motel accommodation—6:1,
(e)  Area 3, business premises, educational establishments, entertainment facilities, function centres, health services facilities, information and education facilities, light industries, office premises or retail premises—2.5:1,
(f)  Area 3, centre-based child care facilities, community facilities or hotel or motel accommodation—3.5:1,
(g)  Area 4, business premises, centre-based child care facilities, community facilities, educational establishments, entertainment facilities, function centres, health services facilities, hotel or motel accommodation, information and education facilities, light industries, office premises or retail premises—1.5:1.
(1A)  A building in Area 2, 3 or 4 that is used for the purposes of residential accommodation or serviced apartments is eligible for the amount of accommodation floor space calculated by applying the relevant floor space ratio available on the date the development application is made to the building, as follows—
Area
Additional floor space available until 30 June 2022
Additional floor space available from 1 July 2022 to 30 June 2023
Additional floor space available from 1 July 2023
Area 2
6:1
3:1
Nil
Area 3
3:1
1.5:1
Nil
Area 4
1.5:1
0.75:1
Nil
(2)  The amount of additional floor space that can be achieved under subclause (1) or (1A) is to be reduced proportionally if only part of a building is used for a purpose specified in subclause (1) or (1A).
(3)  More than one amount under subclause (1) or (1A) may apply in respect of a building that is used for more than one purpose.
6.5   Car parking reduction floor space
Development on land in Central Sydney that results in the use of any part of a basement of a building being changed from a car park or from an area that is used for parking cars to any other use, causes the building to be eligible for an amount of additional floor space (car parking reduction floor space) equal to the area of any such changed use.
6.5A   Shared loading dock facility floor space
(1)  Development on land in Central Sydney that results in the use of any part of a basement of a building being used for the following purposes causes the building to be eligible for an amount of additional floor space (shared loading dock facility floor space) equal to the area of the use—
(a)  a community loading dock facility,
(b)  a shared loading dock facility.
(2)  In this clause—
community loading dock facility means a publicly accessible off-street loading dock and includes parking for delivery and service vehicles.
shared loading dock facility means a private onsite loading dock that may be shared with neighbouring sites or businesses at neighbouring sites.
6.6   End of journey floor space
(1)  A building on land in Central Sydney that is used only for the purposes of commercial premises and that has all of the following facilities together in one area of the building, is eligible for an amount of additional floor space (end of journey floor space) equal to the floor space occupied by those facilities—
(a)  showers,
(b)  change rooms,
(c)  lockers,
(d)  bicycle storage areas.
(2)  The amount of end of journey floor space cannot be more than the amount of floor space that can be achieved by applying a floor space ratio of 0.3:1 to the building.
6.7   Entertainment and club floor space
A building on land in Central Sydney is eligible for an amount of additional floor space (entertainment and club floor space) equal to the floor space of any parts of the basement of the building used for the purposes of entertainment facilities or registered clubs.
6.8   Lanes development floor space
(1)  This clause applies only to development consisting of alterations or additions to a building that—
(a)  is in existence on the making of this Plan, and
(b)  is on land in Central Sydney, and
(c)  adjoins a lane.
(2)  Development to which this clause applies that results in the total floor space used for lanes development purposes within all relevant premises in a building being greater after the development than it was before the development causes the building to be eligible for an amount of additional floor space (lanes development floor space) equal to that increase.
(3)  For the purposes of this clause—
lane means a public road that is identified on the Lanes Map as a lane.
lanes development purpose means—
(a)  business premises,
(b)  community facilities,
(c)  entertainment facilities,
(d)  food and drink premises,
(e)  information and education facilities,
(f)  places of public worship,
(g)  pubs,
(h)  recreation facilities (indoor),
(i)  registered clubs,
(j)  retail premises.
relevant premises means distinct premises within a building, each of which—
(a)  has a gross floor area of less than 100 square metres, and
(b)  does not have direct access to any other premises in the building, and
(c)  adjoins, and has direct access to, a lane and
(d)  has a floor level no more than 5 metres above the ground level (existing) of the lane.
6.9   Opportunity site floor space
(1)  A building that was built before the commencement of this Plan on land that is an opportunity site is eligible for an amount of additional floor space (opportunity site floor space) equivalent to the lesser of the following—
(a)  the amount of floor space created by any alterations or additions to the building, being floor space with a floor level no more than 5 metres above the ground level (existing),
(b)  the amount of floor space that can be achieved by applying a floor space ratio of 0.8:1 to the building.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development that utilises opportunity site floor space unless the consent authority is satisfied that the development will result in one or more of the following—
(a)  the infilling of setback areas or colonnades that adjoin a public road,
(b)  the reconfiguration of pedestrian and disabled access between the street and the existing building,
(c)  the reconfiguration of public open space between the street and the existing building,
(d)  the relocation of existing driveways and ramps.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to development that utilises opportunity site floor space unless the consent authority has taken into consideration the effect of the proposed development on each of the following—
(a)  the amenity of the area in and around the site of the development,
(b)  pedestrian movement in and around the site,
(c)  the opportunities for pedestrians to use and enjoy the space between streets and buildings on the site,
(d)  traffic safety and whether pedestrians will be separated from vehicle traffic,
(e)  the security of persons in and around the site,
(f)  the exposure of pedestrians to the weather,
(g)  the continuity and visual consistency of buildings on and around the site.
Subdivision 3 Heritage floor space
6.10   Heritage floor space
(1) Objective The objective of this clause is to provide an incentive for the conservation and on-going maintenance of heritage buildings within Central Sydney.
(2) Creation of heritage floor space The Council may record in the register an amount of heritage floor space in respect of a person if—
(a)  the person is the owner or the nominee of the owner of a building that is a heritage item shown marked “*” in Schedule 5 (a heritage building), and
(b)  the heritage building is on land in Zone SP5 Metropolitan Centre, and
(c)  conservation works have been carried out on the heritage building and have been completed in accordance with a heritage conservation management plan approved for the building by the consent authority, and
(d)  a covenant is registered that prevents development that increases the total gross floor area of all buildings on the site on which the heritage building is located or that increases the height of the heritage building, and
(e)  an amount of heritage floor space has not been recorded in the previous 25 years (under this clause or under a similar scheme in force before the commencement of this Plan) in respect of the heritage building, and
(f)  no other building has utilised floor space that was available to it only because, at the time the floor space was utilised, the building was on a site that included the heritage building or that included part of the site occupied by the heritage building.
(3) Trading heritage floor space The Council is to reduce the amount of heritage floor space recorded in the register in respect of a person (the transferor) and is to record that amount in the register in respect of another person (the transferee) as soon as practicable after it becomes satisfied that the heritage floor space has been transferred from the transferor to the transferee.
(4) Extinguishing heritage floor space The Council is to reduce the heritage floor space recorded in the register in respect of a person by an amount if—
(a)  the person notifies the Council in writing that the person has allocated that amount of heritage floor space to a particular site, and
(b)  the site has utilised, in accordance with this Division, an amount of additional floor space that required such an allocation.
(5) Existing heritage floor space The Council may also record in the register an amount of heritage floor space in respect of a person if, on the commencement of this Plan—
(a)  that amount was recorded in respect of the person in the register maintained under clause 61 of Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2005, or
(b)  the person was eligible to have that amount recorded in that register, but the amount had not yet been so recorded.
(6) Exclusion of land from floor space ratio calculations Despite clause 4.5, land is not to be included as part of a site area for the purposes of calculating a floor space ratio if the land was part of the site of a heritage building and an amount of heritage floor space has been recorded in respect of that site (either under this clause or under a similar scheme in force before the commencement of this Plan).
(7)  In this clause—
the register means the register maintained by the Council for the purposes of this clause.
6.11   Utilisation of certain additional floor space requires allocation of heritage floor space
(1)  Despite any other provision of this Part, development consent must not be granted to development in respect of a building on a site in Central Sydney that utilises any amount of additional floor space specified in paragraph (a), (b) (c), (d) or (e) unless the consent authority is satisfied that an amount of heritage floor space will be allocated to the site (whether because of a condition of consent or otherwise) in accordance with the following relevant paragraphs—
(a)  accommodation floor space in respect of a building (the height of which will exceed 55 metres following the development) on a site in Area 1, 2 or 3—unless an amount of heritage floor space is allocated to the site that is equal to 50% of the accommodation floor space to be utilised,
(b)  accommodation floor space in respect of a building (the height of which will exceed 55 metres following the development) on a site in Area 4 (but only if the accommodation floor space causes the floor space ratio of the building to be greater than 8:1)—unless an amount of heritage floor space is allocated to the site that is equal to 50% of any accommodation floor space to be utilised,
(c)  opportunity site floor space—unless an amount of heritage floor space is allocated to the site that is equal to 50% of the opportunity site floor space to be utilised,
(d)  additional floor space granted by a consent authority under clause 6.21D(3)(b), 6.25(4)(b) or 6.26(7)(b)—unless an amount of heritage floor space is allocated to the site that is equal to 50% of the additional floor space to be utilised,
(e)  additional floor space permitted under clause 4.6 in respect of a building on a site that also utilises additional floor space referred to in paragraph (a), (b) (c) or (d)—unless an amount of heritage floor space is allocated to the site that is equal to the additional floor space permitted under that clause.
(2)  The consent authority may reduce the amount of heritage floor space that is required to be allocated to a site under subclause (1) as follows (and in such a case that reduced amount is the amount of heritage floor space that is required to be allocated)—
(a)  if the proposed development is the winner of an architectural design competition carried out in accordance with the City of Sydney Competitive Design Policy—the amount of heritage floor space may be reduced by up to 50% or 1,000 square metres, whichever is the lesser,
(b)  if the development includes any covered or partially covered pedestrian route through the site at street level and the consent authority is satisfied that the pedestrian route provides a vital and publicly accessible link between 2 streets—the amount of heritage floor space may be reduced by up to 50% or 250 square metres, whichever is the lesser.
(c)    (Repealed)
(3)  In the case of development that is an alteration or addition to an existing building, the amount of heritage floor space required to be allocated to the site of the building under subclause (1) is to be no more than the difference between—
(a)  the amount of heritage floor space that would be required to be allocated to the site if the building (as altered or added to) were to be constructed as a new building, and
(b)  the amount of heritage floor space that would be required to be allocated to the site if the building (without the alteration or addition) were to be constructed as a new building.
(4)  No heritage floor space is required to be allocated in the case of development that is an alteration or addition to an existing building if the development does not increase the gross floor area of the building by more than 100 square metres.
6.11A   Temporary alternative heritage arrangements in relation to allocation of heritage floor space
(1)  This clause applies to development in respect of a building on a site in Central Sydney that utilises additional floor space referred to in clause 6.11 and for which development consent cannot be granted unless heritage floor space will be allocated to the site in accordance with that clause.
(2)  If the consent authority is satisfied that the requisite amount of heritage floor space cannot be acquired for allocation to the site on reasonable terms and within a reasonable period, the consent authority may dispense with the requirement for the allocation of heritage floor space, or may reduce the amount of heritage floor space required to be allocated, if—
(a)  the consent authority has adopted and published a policy that makes alternative heritage arrangements to the allocation of heritage floor space for the purposes of this Subdivision, and
(b)  the consent authority is satisfied that the relevant alternative heritage arrangements have been made in relation to the development (because of a condition of consent or otherwise).
(3)  The objective of the policy adopted by the consent authority is the conservation and on-going maintenance of heritage buildings within Central Sydney. The alternative heritage arrangements made by the policy may include the following—
(a)  the carrying out of (or the provision of financial or other assistance for the carrying out of) conservation works on those heritage buildings,
(b)  the preparation of (or the provision of financial or other assistance for the preparation of) heritage conservation management plans for those heritage buildings.
(4)  This clause applies only in relation to an application for development consent that is made before 1 January 2026.
Division 2 Additional floor space outside Central Sydney
6.12   Additional floor space outside Central Sydney
Despite clause 4.4, the gross floor area of a building on land (other than land in Central Sydney) may exceed the maximum permitted as a result of the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map by an amount no greater than the sum of any one or more of the following for which the building may be eligible—
(a)  any community infrastructure floor space under clause 6.14,
(b)  any amount determined by the consent authority under clause 6.21D(3)(b),
(c)  any end of journey floor space under clause 6.13.
6.13   End of journey floor space
(1)  A building on land (other than land in Central Sydney) that is used only for the purposes of commercial premises and that has all of the following facilities together in one area of the building, is eligible for an amount of additional floor space (end of journey floor space) equal to the floor space occupied by those facilities—
(a)  showers,
(b)  change rooms,
(c)  lockers,
(d)  bicycle storage areas.
(2)  The amount of end of journey floor space cannot be more than the amount of floor space that can be achieved by applying a floor space ratio of 0.3:1 to the building.
6.14   Community infrastructure floor space at Green Square
(1)  The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to allow greater densities where Green Square community infrastructure is also provided,
(b)  to ensure that such greater densities reflect the desired character of the localities in which they are allowed and minimise adverse impacts on the amenity of those localities,
(c)  to provide for an intensity of development that is commensurate with the capacity of existing and planned infrastructure.
(2)  The consent authority may consent to development that results in additional floor space in accordance with subclause (4) if the development includes Green Square community infrastructure.
(3)  In deciding whether to grant development consent, the consent authority—
(a)  must be satisfied that the development is consistent with the objectives of this clause, and
(b)  must be satisfied that the Green Square community infrastructure is reasonably necessary at Green Square, and
(c)  must take into account the nature of the Green Square community infrastructure and its value to the Green Square community.
(4)  Under subclause (2), a building on land in an Area specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) or (f) is eligible for an amount of additional floor space determined by the consent authority but no more than that which may be achieved by applying the floor space ratio specified in the relevant paragraph to the building—
(a)  Area 5—0.25:1,
(b)  Area 6—0.5:1,
(c)  Area 7—0.75:1,
(d)  Area 8—1:1,
(e)  Area 9—1.5:1,
(f)  Area 10—2.2:1.
(5)  In this clause—
Area means an Area shown on the Floor Space Ratio Map.
Green Square community infrastructure means development at Green Square for the purposes of recreation areas, recreation facilities (indoor), recreation facilities (outdoor), public roads, drainage or flood mitigation works.
6.15, 6.15A   (Renumbered as clauses 6.22, 6.23)
Division 3 Height of buildings and overshadowing
6.16   Erection of tall buildings in Central Sydney
(1)  The objectives of this clause are to ensure—
(a)  the satisfactory distribution of built form and development of floor space for tall buildings in Central Sydney, and
(b)  tall building setbacks will provide an appropriate level of amenity for public places and important publicly accessible places, and
(c)  tall buildings will maximise active public place frontages, and
(d)  tall buildings will provide adequate outlook for occupants of new buildings.
(2)  This clause applies to development on land in Central Sydney involving the erection of a building—
(a)  with a height greater than 55 metres above ground level (existing), or
(b)  with a floor space ratio greater than the maximum floor space ratio shown on the Floor Space Ratio Map, or
(c)  to which paragraphs (a) and (b) apply.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to development to which this clause applies unless—
(a)  the consent authority is satisfied that the building will not adversely impact on—
(i)  the wind conditions of public places and important publicly accessible places, or
(ii)  key views from public places, or
(iii)  the curtilage of heritage items, or
(iv)  the setting and character of buildings and heritage items in conservation areas and special character areas, or
(v)  the free movement of air to provide ventilation around tower forms, and
(b)  the consent authority is satisfied that the building will provide for high levels of—
(i)  sun and daylight access to public places and significant publicly accessible places, and
(ii)  outlook for the proposed development, and
(iii)  appropriate height transitions between new development and buildings and heritage items in conservation areas and special character areas.
(4)  Development consent must not be granted to development to which subclause (2)(a) or (c) applies unless the site area is at least 1,000 square metres.
6.17   Sun access planes
(1)  The objectives of this clause are—
(a)  to ensure that buildings maximise sunlight access to the public places set out in this clause, and
(b)  to ensure sunlight access to the facades of sandstone buildings in special character areas to assist the conservation of the sandstone and to maintain the amenity of those areas,
(c)  to protect and improve sunlight access to important public parks and places in and near Central Sydney throughout the year, and during periods in the day when the parks and places are most used.
(2)  The consent authority must not grant development consent to development on land if the development will result in any building on the land projecting higher than any part of a sun access plane described in Schedule 6A.
(3)  Despite subclause (2), the consent authority may grant development consent to development for the purpose of maintaining or refurbishing an existing building that projects higher than part of the relevant sun access plane if the maintenance or refurbishment does not result in the building projecting further above the sun access plane.
(4)  This clause applies to the sun access planes described in Schedule 6A affecting the following places during the specified dates and times—
Place
Period of protection
Times of protection
Alexandria Park
All year
10am–2pm
Belmore Park
All year
10am–2pm
Daniel Dawson Reserve
All year
10am–2pm
Harmony Park
All year
10am–2pm
Hyde Park
All year
10am–2pm
Lang Park
All year
Midday–2pm
Macquarie Place
1 September–31 May
10am–Midday
Martin Place
1 September–31 May
Midday–2pm
Prince Alfred Park
All year
10am–2pm
The Domain
All year
9am–2pm
The Royal Botanic Gardens
All year
9am–2pm
Wynyard Park
All year
Midday–2pm
(5)–(19)    (Repealed)
6.18   Overshadowing of certain public places
(1)  The objectives of this clause are—
(a)  to prevent additional overshadowing of valued public places that are used as areas for passive recreation by the public, workers and visitors in Central Sydney, and
(b)  to protect significant, new and planned public places from future overshadowing.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development resulting in part of a building causing additional overshadowing to the following places shown on the Sun Access Protection Map during the specified dates and times—
Place
Period of protection
Times of protection
Macquarie Place
14 April–31 August
10am–2pm
Martin Place, between Pitt Street and George Street
14 April–31 August
Midday–2pm
Pitt Street Mall
14 April–31 August
10am–2pm
Australia Square Plaza
14 April–31 August
Midday–2pm
First Government House Place
14 April–31 August
10am–2pm
Sydney Town Hall Steps
14 April–31 August
10.30am–4pm
Sydney Square
14 April–31 August
11am–4pm
Future Town Hall Square
All year
Midday–sunset
(3)  Subclause (2) applies to the Pitt Street Mall only beyond the overshadowing cast by a wall with a 20 metre street frontage height on the eastern or western alignment of the Pitt Street Mall.
(4)  Subclause (2) applies to the Macquarie Place only beyond the overshadowing cast by a wall with a 35 metre street frontage height on the eastern alignment of Loftus Street.
(5)  Subclause (2) applies to the Future Town Hall Square for overshadowing caused as if there were currently no buildings on the site.
(6)  Development results in a building causing additional overshadowing if the total overshadowing of the relevant location during the specified times would be greater after the development is carried out than the overshadowing of that location during the specified times caused by existing buildings.
6.19   View planes
(1)  The objectives of this clause are—
(a)  to preserve significant views from public places, and
(b)  to ensure development does not obstruct public views.
(2)  The consent authority must not grant development consent to development on land if the development will result in a building on the land projecting higher than a part of a view plane taken to extend over the land under this clause.
(3)  Despite subclause (2), the consent authority may grant development consent to development for the purpose of maintaining or refurbishing an existing building that projects higher than part of the relevant view plane if the maintenance or refurbishment does not result in the building projecting further above the view plane.
(4)  This clause applies to the view planes taken to extend over land described in Schedule 6B.
6.19A   Views of Sydney Harbour
(1)  The objectives of this clause are—
(a)  to preserve significant views from public places, and
(b)  to ensure development does not obstruct public views from Observatory Hill to Sydney Harbour.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development on land to which this Plan applies resulting in part of a building causing additional obstruction of the view to Sydney Harbour from the following locations—
(a)  the Observatory Hill Rotunda at 333951.6E, 6252020.4N, RL41.6,
(b)  a point in the north west quadrant of Observatory Hill, east of the fig trees, at 333887.9E, 6251885.8N, RL39.8,
(c)  a point west of the Cahill Expressway corkscrew off ramp at 333902.5E, 6252031.4N, RL40.7.
(3)  In this clause—
Sydney Harbour means the water below the mean high water mark within an area bounded by the following coordinates—
(a)  Point 1 at 333260.9E, 6253147.0N,
(b)  Point 2 at 334555.1E, 6253025.1N,
(c)  Point 3 at 334433.4E, 6251730.8N,
(d)  Point 4 at 333139.2E, 6251852.5N.
6.20   (Renumbered as clause 6.25)
6.20A   (Renumbered as clause 6.24)
Division 4 Design excellence
Subdivision 1 Preliminary
6.21   Objective
The objective of this Division is to deliver the highest standard of architectural, urban and landscape design.
6.21A   Definitions
In this Division—
building demonstrating design excellence means a building where the design of the building, or the design of an external alteration to the building, is the winner of a competitive design process and the consent authority is satisfied that the building or alteration exhibits design excellence.
capital investment value has the same meaning as in the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2000.
competitive design process means an architectural design competition, or the preparation of design alternatives on a competitive basis, carried out in accordance with the City of Sydney Competitive Design Policy.
6.21B   Application of Division
(1)  This Division applies to development involving the erection of a new building or external alterations to an existing building on land to which this Plan applies.
(2)  Nothing in this Division permits a consent authority to grant development consent to the following development—
(a)  development that would result in any building on land projecting higher than any sun access plane that is taken to extend over that land by operation of Division 3,
(b)  development that results in any building causing additional overshadowing of a kind specified in Division 3,
(c)  development that results in any building on land in Area 1 or Area 2 on the Height of Buildings Map having a height greater than the height of the building that was on the land at the commencement of this Plan.
Subdivision 2 Design excellence requirements
6.21C   Design excellence
(1)  Development consent must not be granted to development to which this Division applies unless, in the opinion of the consent authority, the proposed development exhibits design excellence.
(2)  In considering whether development to which this Division applies exhibits design excellence, the consent authority must have regard to the following matters—
(a)  whether a high standard of architectural design, materials and detailing appropriate to the building type and location will be achieved,
(b)  whether the form and external appearance of the proposed development will improve the quality and amenity of the public domain,
(c)  whether the proposed development detrimentally impacts on view corridors,
(d)  how the proposed development addresses the following matters—
(i)  the suitability of the land for development,
(ii)  the existing and proposed uses and use mix,
(iii)  any heritage issues and streetscape constraints,
(iv)  the location of any tower proposed, having regard to the need to achieve an acceptable relationship with other towers, existing or proposed, on the same site or on neighbouring sites in terms of separation, setbacks, amenity and urban form,
(v)  the bulk, massing and modulation of buildings,
(vi)  street frontage heights,
(vii)  environmental impacts, such as sustainable design, overshadowing and solar access, visual and acoustic privacy, noise, wind and reflectivity,
(viii)  the achievement of the principles of ecologically sustainable development,
(ix)  pedestrian, cycle, vehicular and service access and circulation requirements, including the permeability of any pedestrian network,
(x)  the impact on, and any proposed improvements to, the public domain,
(xi)  the impact on any special character area,
(xii)  achieving appropriate interfaces at ground level between the building and the public domain,
(xiii)  excellence and integration of landscape design.
6.21D   Competitive design process
(1)  Development consent must not be granted to the following development to which this Division applies unless a competitive design process has been held in relation to the proposed development—
(a)  development in respect of a building that has, or will have, a height above ground level (existing) greater than—
(i)  55 metres on land in Central Sydney, or
(ii)  25 metres on any other land,
(b)  development having a capital investment value of more than $100,000,000,
(c)  development in respect of which a development control plan is required to be prepared under clause 7.20,
(d)  development for which the applicant has chosen such a process.
(2)  A competitive design process is not required under subclause (1) if the consent authority is satisfied that such a process would be unreasonable or unnecessary in the circumstances or that the development—
(a)  involves only alterations or additions to an existing building, and
(b)  does not significantly increase the height or gross floor area of the building, and
(c)  does not have significant adverse impacts on adjoining buildings and the public domain, and
(d)  does not significantly alter any aspect of the building when viewed from public places.
(3)  A building demonstrating design excellence—
(a)  may have a building height that exceeds the maximum height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map by an amount, to be determined by the consent authority, of up to 10% of the amount shown on the map, or
(b)  is eligible for an amount of additional floor space, to be determined by the consent authority, of up to 10% of—
(i)  the amount permitted as a result of the floor space ratio shown for the land on—
(A)  for a building for which development consent is granted under clause 6.60B—the Alternative Floor Space Ratio Map—Employment Sites or the Alternative Floor Space Ratio Map—Affordable Housing Sites, or
(B)  otherwise—the Floor Space Ratio Map, and
(ii)  any accommodation floor space or community infrastructure floor space for which the building is eligible under Division 1 or 2.
6.21E   Tower cluster areas
(1)  A building located in a tower cluster area may be eligible for additional floor space under this clause if the consent authority is satisfied that the building demonstrates design excellence as the winner of an architectural design competition carried out in accordance with the City of Sydney Competitive Design Policy.
(2)  A building located in a tower cluster area is eligible for an amount of additional floor space, to be determined by the consent authority, up to 50% of the combined total of—
(a)  the amount permitted as a result of the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map, and
(b)  accommodation floor space the building is eligible for under Division 1.
(3)  In determining the percentage of additional floor space, the consent authority must consider the matters listed in clause 6.21C(2).
(4)  For the avoidance of doubt, a building in a tower cluster area is eligible for additional floor space under clause 6.21D(3)(b) or subclause (2), but not both.
(5)  A building located in a tower cluster area may exceed the maximum height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map if—
(a)  the consent authority is satisfied that the building demonstrates design excellence as the winner of an architectural design competition carried out in accordance with the City of Sydney Competitive Design Policy, and
(b)  the building height does not exceed the following—
(i)  sun access plane controls in clause 6.17,
(ii)  overshadowing controls in clause 6.18,
(iii)  view plane controls in clause 6.19,
(iv)  view of Sydney Harbour controls in clause 6.19A.
(6)  A building is eligible for additional floor space under subclause (2) or may exceed the maximum building height under subclause (5), or both, only if—
(a)  the unencumbered area of the subject site is greater than 2,000 square metres, excluding areas of the site occupied by the following—
(i)  heritage items,
(ii)  public places, including streets, lanes, parks and squares,
(iii)  areas above or below major infrastructure including bridges and viaducts used for rail, vehicle, cyclist and pedestrian purposes,
(iv)  major utility infrastructure,
(v)  publicly accessible open spaces, easements, common access areas and privately owned lanes, and
(b)  the building will only be used for the following purposes—
(i)  centre-based child care facilities,
(ii)  commercial premises,
(iii)  community facilities,
(iv)  educational establishments,
(v)  entertainment facilities,
(vi)  function centres,
(vii)  health services facilities,
(viii)  hotel or motel accommodation,
(ix)  information and education facilities,
(x)  light industries,
(xi)  uses ancillary to the other uses of the building including parking, utilities and storage.
Division 5 Site specific provisions
6.22   Caritas site
(1)  This clause applies to the Caritas site at 299 Forbes Street Darlinghurst, being Lot 1612, DP 752011.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development on land to which this clause applies if the development will result in either or both of the following—
(a)  the gross floor area of all buildings on the Caritas site being more than 12,315 square metres,
(b)  the gross floor area of all uses (other than business premises and retail premises) on the Caritas site being more than 11,329.80 square metres.
6.23   87 Bay Street, Glebe—floor space
(1)  The objective of this clause is to provide for additional floor space on certain land if any development of the site provides for—
(a)  on-site affordable housing, and
(b)  the achievement of certain environmentally sustainable development targets.
(2)  This clause applies to 87 Bay Street (also known as 2–8 Wentworth Street), Glebe, being Lot 1, DP 874988.
(3)  Despite clause 4.4, the floor space ratio for a building on land to which this clause applies may exceed the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map by an amount no greater than 2.2:1 plus any other additional floor space that is otherwise permitted by this Plan.
(4)  Development consent must not be granted under subclause (3) unless—
(a)  at least 0.75:1 of the maximum floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map is used for a purpose other than residential accommodation, and
(b)  in the case of development that is BASIX affected development—the development—
(i)  exceeds the BASIX commitment for water for the development by not less than 25% of the water target score, and
(ii)  exceeds the BASIX commitment for energy for the development by not less than 25% of the energy target score.
(5)  Development consent must not be granted under this clause unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the development will provide dwellings on that site for the purposes of affordable housing having a floor space equivalent to 7.5% of—
(i)  the amount of floor space that exceeds the amount of floor space that would result in a floor space ratio of 1.5:1 (including any additional floor space under this clause and under Division 4), or
(ii)  the total floor space used for the purpose of residential accommodation (including any additional floor space under this clause and under Division 4),
whichever is the higher, and
(b)  those dwellings will be used for the purposes of affordable housing, and
(c)  all accommodation in those dwellings will be managed by a registered community housing provider (within the meaning of the Housing Act 2001).
6.24   87 Bay Street, Glebe—building height
(1)  The objective of this clause is to provide for additional building height on certain land if any development of the site provides for—
(a)  on-site affordable housing, and
(b)  the achievement of certain environmentally sustainable development targets.
(2)  This clause applies to 87 Bay Street (also known as 2–8 Wentworth Street), Glebe, being Lot 1, DP 874988, identified as “Area 5” on the Height of Buildings Map.
(3)  Despite clause 4.3, development consent may be granted to the erection or use of a building with a maximum height of 33 metres on land to which this clause applies.
(4)  Development consent must not be granted under subclause (3) unless—
(a)  at least 0.75:1 of the maximum floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map is used for a purpose other than residential accommodation, and
(b)  in the case of development that is BASIX affected development—the development—
(i)  exceeds the BASIX commitment for water for the development by not less than 25% of the water target score, and
(ii)  exceeds the BASIX commitment for energy for the development by not less than 25% of the energy target score.
(5)  Development consent must not be granted under this clause unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the development will provide dwellings on that site for the purposes of affordable housing having a floor space equivalent to 7.5% of—
(i)  the amount of floor space that exceeds the amount of floor space that would result in a floor space ratio of 1.5:1 (including any additional floor space under clause 6.15A and under Division 4), or
(ii)  the total floor space used for the purpose of residential accommodation (including any additional floor space under clause 6.15A and under Division 4),
whichever is the higher, and
(b)  those dwellings will be used for the purposes of affordable housing, and
(c)  all accommodation in those dwellings will be managed by a registered community housing provider (within the meaning of the Housing Act 2001).
6.25   APDG block
(1)  The objective of this clause is to provide for additional building height and floor space on parts of certain sites within the area bounded by Alfred Street, Pitt Street, Dalley Street and George Street, known as the “APDG block”, if the development of the site provides for publicly accessible open space, lanes and other links through the site.
(2)  This clause applies to land within Area 4 on the Height of Buildings Map.
(3)  Despite clause 4.3, development consent may be granted to the erection of a building with a maximum height of—
(a)  200 metres on up to 33% of the area of block 1, or
(b)  155 metres on up to 42% of the area of block 2, or
(c)  185 metres on up to 24% of the area of block 3, or
(d)  248 metres on up to 25% of the area of block 4 and 238 metres on up to 12% of the area of that block, or
(e)  232 metres on up to 44% of the area of block 5.
(4)  Despite clause 4.4 and Division 4, the consent authority may grant consent to development that results in the gross floor area of a building in block 5 exceeding the maximum permissible floor space by an amount no greater than 1, or the sum of 2 or all, of the following—
(a)  an amount of additional floor space that results in a floor space ratio of up to 2.52:1,
(b)  if the building demonstrates design excellence within the meaning of clause 6.21A—an amount of floor space, determined by the consent authority, that is up to 10% of the sum of the following—
(i)  the maximum permissible floor space,
(ii)  the additional floor space referred to in paragraph (a),
(iii)  the accommodation floor space to which a building on the land may be eligible,
(c)  the accommodation floor space, car parking reduction floor space, end of journey floor space, entertainment and club floor space or lanes development floor space for which the building may be eligible under clause 6.3(a) or (c).
(5)  Development consent must not be granted under this clause unless the consent authority is satisfied that the development will—
(a)  include recreation areas and lanes and roads through the site, and
(b)  include business premises and retail premises that have frontages at ground level (finished) to those recreation areas, lanes and roads, and
(c)  provide a satisfactory distribution of built form and floor space development.
(6)  Development consent must not be granted under this clause for development on land in block 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 unless the consent authority is satisfied that the development relates to the whole of the block and, except as otherwise provided by this clause, no other land.
(7)  Development consent must not be granted under this clause for development on land in block 5 unless the consent authority is satisfied that the development will deliver improvement works to the utility buildings.
(8)  Development on land in block 1 may also relate to the whole, or any 1 or more, of the following—
(a)  Lot 1, DP 787946,
(b)  Lot 180, DP 606866,
(c)  Lot 1, DP 537286.
(9)  Development on land in block 3 may also relate to the whole, or 1, of the following—
(a)  Lot 180, DP 606866,
(b)  Lot 1, DP 537286.
(10)  For the purposes of calculating a floor space ratio in respect of any building in block 4—
(a)  the site area is taken to be the whole of block 4, other than Lots 2 and 3, DP 1213767, and
(b)  the gross floor area of all buildings on the site area is to be taken into account in the calculation, other than—
(i)  floor area dedicated to the Council, and
(ii)  up to 3,900 square metres of floor area leased to the Council for a period of not less than 20 years for the purposes of office premises that are to be used to promote business innovation or economic development.
Note—
Similar adjustments also apply to calculations for additional floor space under Division 1 including for the utilisation of heritage floor space.
(11)  For the purposes of calculating a floor space ratio for a building in block 5—
(a)  despite clause 4.5(6), the site area is taken to be the whole of block 5, and
(b)  the gross floor area of all buildings on the site area is to be taken into account in the calculation, other than a floor area of up to 100 square metres that is used or set aside for the operational purposes of a utility building.
(12)  Despite any other provision of this Plan, a building erected in block 4 or 5 must not be used for the purposes of residential accommodation or serviced apartments.
(13)  Lanes development floor space may be used by a new building in block 4 or 5 as if the building were an existing building and for that purpose, land, whether or not a public road, may be identified on the Lanes Map as a lane to which clause 6.8 applies.
(14)  The land for which lanes development floor space is used under subclause (13), whether or not a public road, may be identified on the Lanes Map as a lane to which clause 6.8 applies.
(15)  Clause 6.21D(3) does not apply to development on land in block 5.
(16)  In this clause—
block 1 means—
(a)  Lot 7, DP 629694, and
(b)  Lot 501, DP 714847, and
(c)  Lots 2 and 3, DP 1092, and
(d)  Lots 1 and 2, DP 1112308, and
(e)  Lots A and B, DP 104160, and
(f)  Lot 7, DP110046, and
(g)  Lot 6, DP 75338, and
(h)  Lot 4, DP 524306, and
(i)  Lot 1, DP 513109, and
(j)  the whole of the road known as “Queens Court”.
block 2 means—
(a)  Lot 4, DP 57434, and
(b)  Lot 1, DP 69466, and
(c)  Lot 1, DP 110607, and
(d)  Lot 1, DP 188061, and
(e)  Lots A–D, DP 435746, and
(f)  Lot 20, DP 1063401, and
(g)  Lot 1, DP 913005, and
(h)  Lot 1, DP 107759.
block 3 means Lot 1, DP 220830 and Lot 1, DP 217877.
block 4 means—
(a)  Lot 7, DP 629694, and
(b)  Lots 181 and 182, DP 606865, and
(c)  Lots 1 and 2, DP 880891, and
(d)  Lots 2 and 3, DP 1213767.
block 5 means—
(a)  Lot 501, DP 714847, and
(b)  Lots 2 and 3, DP 1092, and
(c)  Lots 1 and 2, DP 1112308, and
(d)  Lot 7, DP110046, and
(e)  Lot 6, DP 75338, and
(f)  Lot 4, DP 524306, and
(g)  Lot 1, DP 513109, and
(h)  Lots A and B, DP 104160, and
(i)  Lot 1, DP 787946.
improvement works means—
(a)  for land on Lot 1, DP 787946—the following works—
(i)  works to the roof and colonnade of the building located on the land,
(ii)  relocation of the existing driveway on the land,
(iii)  the development of retail spaces on the area currently occupied by the existing driveway, and
(b)  for land on Lots A and B, DP 104160—works to the roof and facade of the building located on the land.
maximum permissible floor space, in relation to a building proposed to be erected or altered on land, means the amount of floor space permitted for the building as a result of the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map.
utility buildings means—
(a)  the Telstra exchange building located on Lot 1, DP 787946, known as 6 Dalley Street, and
(b)  the Ausgrid substation building located on Lots A and B, DP 104160, known as 8–14 Dalley Street.
6.26   AMP Circular Quay precinct
(1)  This clause applies to the following land—
(a)  block A, being Lot 2, DP 1073376,
Note—
Block A is at 50 Bridge Street, Sydney.
(b)  block B, being Lot 1, DP 1073376,
Note—
Block B is at 33 Alfred Street, Sydney.
(c)  block C, being Lot 1, DP 104784, Lot 1, DP 723381, Lots 1–4, DP 134760, Lot 1, DP 810463, Lot 501, DP 709624, Lot 1, DP 87960 and Lot 1, DP 134861.
Note—
Block C comprises 5–7, 9–13 and 15–17 Young Street and 2–10, 12 and 20 Loftus Street, Sydney.
(2)  The objective of this clause is to provide for a commercial addition to the existing commercial tower on block A by permitting the utilisation of floor space from block C, but only if the development of the land to which this clause applies—
(a)  does not reduce existing sun access to the Royal Botanic Gardens in midwinter, and
(b)  improves solar access to Macquarie Place and Loftus Lane in midwinter, and
(c)  provides for publicly accessible lanes, arcades and through site links on the land, and
(d)  ensures the retention and conservation of all heritage items on the land, and
(e)  provides low to mid rise buildings with a diversity of uses, scale and form on block C, and
(f)  minimises the impact of vehicle movements.
(3)  In determining the site area for the purposes of applying a floor space ratio to development on land to which this clause applies, block A, block B and block C are, despite clause 4.5(3)(b), taken to be a single site area.
(4)  Clause 6.8 (Lanes development floor space) applies to a new building on block C in the same way as it applies to a building that was in existence on that block on the making of this Plan.
(5)  Any additional floor space to which a building on block C may be eligible under this Part may be utilised in accordance with this Part in a building on block A rather than in the building on block C.
(6)  Clause 6.21D(3) does not apply to development on land to which this clause applies.
(7)  The consent authority may grant consent to development that results in the floor area of all buildings on the land to which this clause applies exceeding the maximum permitted as a result of the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map by an amount no greater than the sum of the following—
(a)  any accommodation floor space to which buildings on the land are eligible,
(b)  if the buildings on block A and block C demonstrate design excellence within the meaning of Division 4, an amount of floor space, determined by the consent authority, that is up to 10% of the sum of—
(i)  the maximum permitted as a result of the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map, and
(ii)  the amount under paragraph (a),
(c)  any car parking reduction floor space, end of journey floor space, entertainment and club floor space or lanes development floor space to which buildings on the land are eligible.
(8)  The consent authority may grant development consent to an addition to a building on block A that causes the building to project higher than the following, but only if the consent authority is satisfied that the overshadowing of the Royal Botanical Gardens caused by the building at 14.00 on 21 June in any year will be no greater after the development is carried out than it would be if the development were not carried out—
(a)  the maximum height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map,
(b)  the Royal Botanic Gardens 8 sun access plane.
(9)  The consent authority must not grant consent to development under this clause unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  adequate provision has been made for the restoration and conservation of heritage items on Lot 1, DP 87960, or
(b)  the proposed development would still be permissible under this clause even if block C were taken not to include Lot 1, DP 87960.
(10)  The consent authority must not grant consent to development under this clause unless it is satisfied that all buildings on block A will be used only for one or more of the following—
(a)  centre-based child care facilities,
(b)  commercial premises,
(c)  community facilities,
(d)  education establishments,
(e)  entertainment facilities,
(f)  function centres,
(g)  health services facilities,
(h)  registered clubs.
6.27   Lachlan Precinct, Waterloo
(1)  Clauses 6.21D(1)(a)(ii) and 7.20(2)(b) do not apply to development on Lachlan Precinct land in respect of, or that will result in, a building with a height equal to or less than 30 metres above ground level (existing).
(2)  A building on Lachlan Precinct land that is used only for the purposes of commercial premises and that is eligible for community infrastructure floor space under clause 6.14—
(a)  is eligible for an amount of additional floor space, in excess of that permitted by the Floor Space Ratio Map and clause 6.14, to a maximum floor space ratio of 2.5:1, and
(b)  is not eligible for additional floor space under clause 6.21D(3)(b).
(3)  If a development application has been made before the commencement of this clause in relation to Lachlan Precinct land and the application has not been finally determined before that commencement, the application must be determined as if this clause had not commenced.
(4)  In this clause—
Lachlan Precinct land means the land bounded by Lachlan Street, South Dowling Street, O’Dea Avenue and Bourke Street, Waterloo.
6.28   Development in Enterprise Area
(1)  This clause applies to the following development on land identified as “Enterprise Area” on the Locality and Site Identification Map, other than land at Green Square—
(a)  the erection of a new building,
(b)  alterations to an existing building that will result in an amount of additional floor space equivalent to at least 20% of the existing floor space.
(2)  Despite clauses 4.3, 4.4 and Division 4, development consent may be granted to development to which this clause applies if the new building, or the existing building as altered—
(a)  exceeds the maximum permissible height by an amount (to be determined by the consent authority) of up to 15% of the maximum permissible height, less any amount by which the consent authority has determined the building may exceed the maximum permissible height in accordance with clause 6.21D(3)(a), or
(b)  exceeds the maximum permissible floor space by an amount (to be determined by the consent authority) of up to 15% of the maximum permissible floor space, less any amount of additional floor space for which the consent authority has determined the building is eligible in accordance with clause 6.21D(3)(b).
(3)  Development consent must not be granted under subclause (2) to any development unless the consent authority is satisfied that there is a need for public domain in the area of land on which the development is to be carried out.
(4)  In this clause—
maximum permissible floor space, in relation to a building proposed to be erected or altered on land, means the amount of floor space permitted for the building as a result of the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map.
maximum permissible height, in relation to a building proposed to be erected or altered on land, means the maximum height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map.
public domain means land that is made available for publicly accessible roads, open space, through site links and pedestrian and bicycle paths.
6.29   58–60 Martin Place, Sydney
(1)  This clause applies to 58–60 Martin Place and part of 197 Macquarie Street, being Lot 1, DP 1204291 and part of Lot 1, DP 185400, respectively, identified as “Area 6” on the Height of Buildings Map.
(2)  Despite clauses 4.3 and 6.17, the consent authority may grant development consent to the erection of a building on land to which this clause applies if the building—
(a)  will not exceed a height of RL 167.1 metres, and
(b)  will not result in any additional overshadowing, at any time on 14 April in any year, between 12.00 and 14.00, of land in Martin Place (as shown on the Special Character Areas Map) that is in Zone RE1 Public Recreation or the facade of any building on land at 65 Martin Place, being Lot 1, DP 444499, Lot 1, DP 32720 and Lot 1, DP 33919.
(3)  Despite any other provision of this Plan, a building erected in accordance with a development consent granted under subclause (2) must not be used for the purpose of residential accommodation or serviced apartments.
6.30   904 Bourke Street, Zetland—floor space
(1)  The objective of this clause is to provide for additional floor space on certain land if any development of the site provides for community infrastructure.
(2)  This clause applies to 904 Bourke Street, Zetland, being Lot 20, DP 807178 and Lots 1–7, DP 49583.
(3)  Clause 6.12 does not apply to a building on land to which this clause applies.
(4)  Despite clause 4.4, the gross floor area of a building on land to which this clause applies may exceed the maximum permitted as a result of the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map by an amount no greater than the sum of any one or more of the following for which the building may be eligible—
(a)  any community infrastructure floor space under clause 6.14,
(b)  any commercial or storage floor space for which the building may be eligible under this clause,
(c)  any amount determined by the consent authority under clause 6.21D(3)(b),
(d)  any end of journey floor space under clause 6.13.
(5)  A building on land to which this clause applies is eligible for an amount of additional floor space (commercial or storage floor space) equal to the floor space of any parts of the basement of the building used for the purposes of commercial premises or storage premises, but only if the building is also eligible for community infrastructure floor space under clause 6.14.
(6)  The maximum amount of commercial or storage floor space for which a building is eligible under this clause is the amount of floor space that can be achieved by applying a floor space ratio of 0.25:1 to the building.
(7)  For the purposes of clause 6.21D(3)(b), the amount of additional floor space permitted under that paragraph in respect of a building on land to which this clause applies is up to 10% of—
(a)  the amounts set out in clause 6.21D(3)(b)(i) and (ii), and
(b)  any commercial or storage floor space for which the building is eligible under this clause.
6.31   65–79 Sussex Street, Sydney
Despite clause 4.3, development consent may be granted to the erection or use of a building with a maximum height of RL 39.65 metres on land at 65–79 Sussex Street, Sydney, being Lot 2, DP 1188966, if the consent authority is satisfied that the development is for either or both of the following purposes only—
(a)  hotel or motel accommodation,
(b)  commercial premises (but only if those premises are at ground floor level or lower ground floor level).
6.32   505–523 George Street—building height and floor space
(1)  The objective of this clause is to provide for additional building height on a site if the development of the site provides for the following—
(a)  centre-based child care facilities,
(b)  publicly accessible toilets,
(c)  community meeting rooms.
(2)  This clause applies to 505–523 George Street, Sydney, being Lot 1, DP 573250.
(3)  Despite clause 4.3, development consent may be granted to the erection of a building with a maximum height of 260 metres on land to which this clause applies.
(4)  Development consent must not be granted under subclause (3) unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the building will include a building podium in which are located—
(i)  one or more centre-based child care facilities, and
(ii)  one or more publicly accessible toilets, and
(iii)  one or more community meeting rooms, and
(b)  any floor space of the building that will be used for residential accommodation will not be located in the building podium.
(5)  A building on land to which this clause applies, in respect of which the consent authority is satisfied of the matters referred to in subclause (4)—
(a)  is eligible for an amount of additional floor space equal to the gross floor area of any part of the building podium that will be used for the purpose of a centre-based child care facility, excluding any outdoor play area, and
(b)  despite clause 4.4, may have a gross floor area that exceeds the maximum permitted as a result of the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map by an amount no greater than the sum of any additional floor space for which the building may be eligible under this Plan.
6.33   230–238 Sussex Street, Sydney
(1)  The objective of this clause is to establish a height transition on land at 230–238 Sussex Street, Sydney to limit additional overshadowing on land at 532–540 George Street, Sydney, being Lot 1, DP 79775.
(2)  This clause applies to 230–238 Sussex Street, Sydney, being Lot 1, DP 1207088, identified as “Area 7” on the Height of Buildings Map.
(3)  Despite clause 4.3, the consent authority may grant development consent to the erection of a building on land to which this clause applies that exceeds the maximum height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map if—
(a)  the building will not exceed a height of RL115.9, and
(b)  the building will include hotel or motel accommodation, and
(c)  the consent authority is satisfied that no part of the building will project higher than an inclined plane that is taken to extend over all the land to which this clause applies and that passes through all 3 of the following points—
(i)  E333894.128, N6250583.348, RL120.146,
(ii)  E333929.845, N6250587.106, RL110.608,
(iii)  E333943.792, N6250560.489, RL103.529.
(4)  Coordinates in subclause (3)(c) are Map Grid of Australia 1994 coordinates.
6.34   51–55 Missenden Road, Camperdown—floor space
(1)  Despite clause 4.4, the maximum floor space ratio for a building on land at 51–55 Missenden Road, Camperdown, being Lots 1–4, DP 456915, is 2.7:1.
(2)  For the purposes of clause 6.21D(3)(b), a building permitted on land to which this clause applies is eligible for an amount of additional floor space under that paragraph of up to 10% of 2.7:1.
6.35   45 Murray Street, Pyrmont
(1)  The objective of this clause is to provide for additional height for development for the purpose of hotel or motel accommodation on a site.
(2)  This clause applies to development on land at 45 Murray Street, Pyrmont, being Lot 1, DP 507091.
(3)  Despite clause 4.3, development consent may be granted to development for the purpose of hotel or motel accommodation on land to which this clause applies if the development will not result in a building height of more than 30 metres.
(4)  Clause 6.21D(1) does not apply to development to which this clause applies if the development is an alteration or addition to an existing building.
(5)  Despite any other provision of this Plan, land on which development has been carried out in accordance with a development consent under subclause (3) must not be used for the purpose of residential accommodation or serviced apartments.
6.36   12–20 Rosebery Avenue, 22–40 Rosebery Avenue and 108 Dalmeny Avenue, Rosebery
(1)  This clause applies to 12–20 Rosebery Avenue, 22–40 Rosebery Avenue and 108 Dalmeny Avenue, Rosebery, being Lot 2, DP 229802, Lot 100, DP 730818 and Lot 1, DP 311533, respectively.
(2)  Despite clause 6.21D(3), a building demonstrating design excellence on land to which this clause applies—
(a)  must not have a building height that exceeds the maximum height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map, and
(b)  is only eligible for an amount of additional floor space of up to 8% of—
(i)  the amount permitted as a result of the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map, and
(ii)  any community infrastructure floor space for which the building is eligible under Division 2.
6.37   296–298 Botany Road and 284 Wyndham Street, Alexandria
(1)  This clause applies to the following land at Alexandria (the subject land)—
(a)  296–298 Botany Road (Lot 1, DP 544953),
(b)  284 Wyndham Street (Lot 1, DP 708087).
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development that results in either or both of the following unless the subject land is consolidated into a single lot—
(a)  the height of a building on Lot 1, DP 544953 exceeding 22 metres,
(b)  the height of a building on Lot 1, DP 708087 exceeding 60 metres.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to development that results in any of the following—
(a)  the height of a building on the subject land exceeding the height shown for the subject land on the Height of Buildings Map,
(b)  any part of a building on the land identified as “Area 8” on the Height of Buildings Map projecting higher than an incline plane extending from RL 87.5 along the land’s northern boundary to RL 79 along the land’s southern boundary,
(c)  the gross floor area of all buildings on the subject land exceeding 39,194.54 square metres (including any additional floor space for which the buildings may be eligible under clause 6.13, 6.14 or 6.21D(3)(b)).
(4)  Clause 6.21D(3)(a) does not apply to development on the subject land.
(5)  A building on the subject land is not eligible for an amount of additional floor space under clause 6.21D(3)(b) unless the consent authority is satisfied that the additional floor space will not result in an increase in the maximum number of car parking spaces that would have been applicable to the building under Division 1 of Part 7 if the building were not otherwise eligible for the additional floor space.
(6)  A BASIX affected building (within the meaning of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2000) on the subject land is not eligible for an amount of additional floor space under clause 6.21D(3)(b) unless the building exceeds the BASIX commitment for energy for the building by not less than 5% of the energy target score.
6.38   Certain land in vicinity of Martin Place, Sydney
(1)  This clause applies to the following land—
(a)  8–12 Castlereagh Street, Sydney, being Lots 1 and 2, DP 929277 and Lot 1, DP 173027,
(b)  5 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, being Lot 2, DP 548142,
(c)  7 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, being SP 13171,
(d)  9–19 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, being Lot 1, DP 526161,
(e)  55 Hunter Street, Sydney, being Lot 1, DP 222356,
(f)  39–49 Martin Place, Sydney, being Lots 1 and 2, DP 1103195,
(g)  50 Martin Place, Sydney, being Lot 1, DP 182023.
(2)  Despite clause 4.3, the maximum building height for any part of a building on land referred to in subclause (1)(f) that is not less than 8 metres from the boundary adjoining Martin Place is the height of the Hyde Park North 2B sun access plane (as determined in accordance with clause 6.17(9)).
(3)  Despite clause 4.4, the maximum floor space ratio for a building is as follows—
(a)  in relation to a building on land referred to in subclause (1)(f)—22:1,
(b)  in relation to a building on any other land to which this clause applies—18.5:1.
(4)  Despite any other provision of this Plan, a building erected on land to which this clause applies must not be used for the purpose of residential accommodation or serviced apartments.
6.39   Surry Hills Shopping Village
(1)  The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to provide that a BASIX affected building demonstrating design excellence on the subject land is only eligible for additional building height if it exceeds certain BASIX commitments,
(b)  to provide that a building demonstrating design excellence on the subject land is not eligible for additional floor space,
(c)  to require a lane through the subject land that—
(i)  provides visual and physical access between Marriott Street and Baptist Street, and
(ii)  is open to the sky.
(2)  This clause applies to the following land at Redfern (the subject land)—
(a)  2–38 Baptist Street (Lot 1, DP 1107252),
(b)  397–399 Cleveland Street (Lot 1, DP 72567 and Lot 2, DP 112938),
(c)  399A Cleveland Street (Lot 31, DP 1223099).
(3)  A BASIX affected building (within the meaning of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2000) on the subject land cannot have a building height that exceeds the maximum height shown for the subject land on the Height of Buildings Map under clause 6.21D(3)(a) unless the building exceeds the BASIX commitments for water and energy by not less than 5 points.
(4)  Clauses 6.12(b) and 6.21D(3)(b) do not apply to a building on the subject land.
(5)  Development consent must not be granted to development that results in a building on the land identified as “Area 9” on the Height of Buildings Map being higher than an incline plane extending from RL 34.5 along the land’s western boundary to RL 35.65 along the land’s eastern boundary.
6.40   2–32 Junction Street, Forest Lodge
(1)  This clause applies to the following land at Forest Lodge (the subject land)—
(a)  2–10 Junction Street, being Lots A–C, DP 439209 and Lot 1, DP 1092420,
(b)  12–16 Junction Street, being Lot 1, DP 1035720,
(c)  18–32 Junction Street, being Lot 1, DP 613650, Lot 1, DP 584394, Lot B, DP 87371 and Lot 1, DP 575200.
(2)  Despite clause 4.4, the consent authority may grant development consent to the erection of a building on the subject land that exceeds the maximum floor space ratio shown for the subject land on the Floor Space Ratio Map if—
(a)  the floor space ratio for all buildings on the subject land will not exceed 1.56:1, and
(b)  development on the subject land provides for publicly accessible open space and other links through the site, and
(c)  in the case of development that is BASIX affected development—the development—
(i)  exceeds the BASIX commitment for water for the development by not less than 25% of the water target score, and
(ii)  exceeds the BASIX commitment for energy for the development by not less than 25% of the energy target score.
(3)  The reference to the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map in clause 6.21D(3)(b)(i) is taken, in its application to a building on the subject land, to be a reference to the maximum floor space ratio referred to in this clause.
6.41   7–15 Randle Street, Surry Hills
(1)  This clause applies to land at 7–15 Randle Street, Surry Hills, being Lot 1, DP 538913, Lot 1, DP 74545 and Lots 5 and 6, DP 78903 (the subject land).
(2)  Despite clauses 4.3 and 4.4, development consent may be granted to the erection of a new building, or alterations or additions to an existing building, on the subject land that will result in a building—
(a)  with a maximum height of RL 59.47 metres, and
(b)  with a maximum floor space ratio of 5.9:1.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted under this clause unless the consent authority is satisfied the development—
(a)  is only for the purposes of—
(i)  hotel or motel accommodation, and
(ii)  ancillary commercial premises at the 2 lowest levels of the building, and
(b)  relates to all of the subject land.
(4)  Despite any other provision of this Plan, a building erected in accordance with a development consent granted under this clause must not be used for the purpose of residential accommodation or serviced apartments.
(5) Design excellence Clause 6.21D(3) does not apply to development on the subject land under this clause.
(6)  However, a building demonstrating design excellence within the meaning of Division 4 is eligible for an amount of additional floor space, to be determined by the consent authority, of up to 10% of the amount permitted as a result of the floor space ratio specified for the land under subclause (2)(b).
(7)–(11)    (Repealed)
6.42   102–106 Dunning Avenue, Rosebery
(1)  This clause applies to 102–106 Dunning Avenue, Rosebery, being Lot 50, DP 1171307.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development on land to which this clause applies unless the consent authority is satisfied that the development will result in no less than 10% of the gross floor area of all buildings on the land being used for a purpose other than residential accommodation or tourist and visitor accommodation.
6.43   Danks Street South Precinct
(1)  The objective of this clause is to provide that a building in the Danks Street South Precinct demonstrating design excellence is not eligible for additional floor space.
(2)  This clause applies to land identified as the “Danks Street South Precinct” on the Locality and Site Identification Map (the Danks Street South Precinct).
(3)  Clause 6.21D(3)(b) does not apply to development in the Danks Street South Precinct.
6.44   4–6 Bligh Street, Sydney
(1)  The objective of this clause is to encourage land uses other than residential accommodation or serviced apartments.
(2)  This clause applies to 4–6 Bligh Street, Sydney, being Lot 1, DP 1244245.
(3)  Despite any other provision of this Plan, a building on land to which this clause applies may have a maximum floor space ratio of—
(a)  20:1, or
(b)  if a competitive design process has been held under Division 4 and the building demonstrates design excellence within the meaning of that clause—22:1.
(4)  A building on land to which this clause applies is not entitled to any other additional floor space permitted by this Plan except as provided by this clause.
(5)  Development consent must not be granted for development under subclause (3) unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  if subclause (3)(b) applies—the floor space ratio of the above ground levels of the building does not exceed 21.2:1, and
(b)  if subclause (6), (7) or (8) applies—the total amount of heritage floor space is allocated to the building as calculated in those subclauses, and
(c)  the building does not have a height greater than 205 metres, and
(d)  any floor above the podium level of the building does not have a gross floor area greater than 470 square metres, and
(e)  the building does not include any additional height granted under clause 5.6 or Division 4, and
(f)  the building includes end of journey facilities, and
(g)  the building will not be used for the purposes of residential accommodation or serviced apartments.
(6)  If a building, or part of a building, on land to which this clause applies is used for the purposes of hotel or motel accommodation, community facilities or centre-based child care facilities, an amount of heritage floor space is to be allocated to the building using the following formula—
 
where—
A is the total floor space ratio of the building, not being a ratio of more than 20:1, used for the purposes of hotel or motel accommodation, community facilities or centre-based child care facilities.
B is the ratio of heritage floor space to be allocated to the building.
(7)  If a building, or part of a building, on land to which this clause applies is used for the purposes of office premises, business premises or retail premises, an amount of heritage floor space is to be allocated to the building using the following formula—
 
where—
A is the total floor space ratio of the building, not being a ratio of more than 20:1, used for the purposes of office premises, business premises or retail premises.
B is the ratio of heritage floor space to be allocated to the building.
(8)  If subclause (3)(b) applies, an amount of heritage floor space is allocated to the building that is equal to 50% of the difference between a floor space ratio of 20:1 and the proposed floor space ratio of the building.
(9)  The consent authority may reduce the amount of heritage floor space that is required to be allocated under this clause by up to 50% or 1,000 square metres, whichever is the lesser, if the proposed development is the winner of an architectural design competition carried out in accordance with the City of Sydney Competitive Design Policy.
(10)  In the case of development that is an alteration or addition to an existing building, the amount of heritage floor space required to be allocated to the site of the building under this clause is to be no more than the difference between—
(a)  the amount of heritage floor space that would be required to be allocated to the site if the building (as altered or added to) were to be constructed as a new building, and
(b)  the amount of heritage floor space that would be required to be allocated to the site if the building (without the alteration or addition) were to be constructed as a new building.
(11)  No heritage floor space is required to be allocated under this clause in the case of development that is an alteration or addition to an existing building if the development does not increase the gross floor area of the building by more than 100 square metres.
(12)  Clause 6.11A(2)–(4) apply to heritage floor space allocated under this clause.
(13)  Clauses 4.6 and 6.19 do not apply to development on land to which this clause applies.
(14)  In this clause—
end of journey facilities means all of the following facilities together in one area of the building—
(a)  showers,
(b)  change rooms,
(c)  lockers,
(d)  bicycle storage areas.
heritage floor space has the same meaning as in clause 6.10.
6.45   Waterloo Metro Quarter—general
(1)  The consent authority must not consent to development on land at the Waterloo Metro Quarter unless it is satisfied that the development is consistent with the following objectives—
(a)  there must be at least 12,000 square metres of gross floor area at or below the podium level of buildings on land at the Waterloo Metro Quarter used for land uses other than residential accommodation or passenger transport facilities,
(b)  at least 2,000 square metres of gross floor area of buildings on land at the Waterloo Metro Quarter must be used for the purposes of community facilities,
(c)  at least 2,200 square metres of land at the Waterloo Metro Quarter must be used for publicly accessible open space.
(2)  The consent authority must not consent to development involving the construction of one or more dwellings on land at the Waterloo Metro Quarter unless—
(a)  it is satisfied that at least 5% of the gross floor area used for the purposes of residential accommodation on land at the Waterloo Metro Quarter will be used for the purposes of affordable housing, and
(b)  it is satisfied that no dwelling used for the purposes of affordable housing on land at the Waterloo Metro Quarter will have a gross floor area of less than 50 square metres, and
(c)  it is satisfied that land uses other than residential accommodation or passenger transport facilities will be evenly distributed throughout the Waterloo Metro Quarter, and
(d)  it has taken into consideration any guidelines made by the Planning Secretary relating to the design and amenity of the Waterloo Metro Quarter.
(3)  Clause 6.21D(3) does not apply to development on land at the Waterloo Metro Quarter.
(4)  A provision of this clause or clause 6.46 prevails over any other provision of this Plan to the extent of any inconsistency.
6.46   Waterloo Metro Quarter—State public infrastructure
(1)  The objective of this clause is to require satisfactory arrangements to be made for the provision of designated State public infrastructure before the development of land wholly or partly for residential purposes, to satisfy needs that arise from development on the land, but only if the land is developed intensively for urban purposes.
(2)  Despite all other provisions of this Plan, development consent must not be granted for development for the purposes of residential accommodation (whether as part of a mixed use development or otherwise) on land at the Waterloo Metro Quarter that results in an increase in the number of dwellings on that land, unless the Planning Secretary has certified in writing to the consent authority that satisfactory arrangements have been made to contribute to the provision of designated State public infrastructure in relation to the land.
(3)  This clause does not apply to a development application to carry out development on land at the Waterloo Metro Quarter if all or any part of the land to which the application applies is a special contributions area (as defined by section 7.1 of the Act).
(4)  In this clause—
designated State public infrastructure means public facilities or services that are provided or financed by the State (or if provided or financed by the private sector, to the extent of any financial or in-kind contribution by the State) of the following kinds—
(a)  State and regional roads,
(b)  bus interchanges and bus lanes,
(c)  land required for regional open space,
(d)  embellishments or connections to regional open space,
(e)  social infrastructure and facilities.
6.47   Millers Point heritage conservation area
(1)  The objectives of this clause are—
(a)  to conserve the heritage items and built form of the Millers Point heritage conservation area, and
(b)  to ensure that conservation management plans endorsed by the Heritage Council are considered in the assessment of development that impacts a heritage item in the Millers Point heritage conservation area.
(2)  This clause applies to land identified as “Area 10” on the Height of Buildings Map.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to development that affects a heritage item unless the consent authority considers the following—
(a)  the impact of the development on the built form and heritage significance of the heritage conservation area, and on the built form, fabric and heritage significance of the heritage item,
(b)  a heritage conservation management plan for the item endorsed by the Heritage Council under section 38A of the Heritage Act 1977,
(c)  if there is no plan endorsed by the Heritage Council, a heritage conservation management plan for the item prepared to the satisfaction of the consent authority.
(4)  Development consent must not be granted to development affecting a building that is not a heritage item unless—
(a)  the consent authority considers the impact of the development on the built form and heritage significance of the heritage conservation area, and on the built form, fabric and heritage significance of any heritage item in the vicinity of the building, and
(b)  the development will not result in either or both of the following—
(i)  the height of the building exceeding 9 metres,
(ii)  the floor space ratio for the building exceeding 2:1.
(5)  Despite any other provision of this Plan, the maximum height of a building on land to which this clause applies is the height of the building on the land as at the commencement of this clause.
6.48   225–279 Broadway, Glebe—floor space
(1)  The objective of this clause is to provide for additional floor space on certain land to encourage—
(a)  commercial, education, health, cultural and tourism sectors and associated industries in the Camperdown-Ultimo area, and
(b)  development capable of achieving certain ecologically sustainable development ratings.
(2)  This clause applies to the land identified on the Locality and Site Identification Map as “Broadway Gateway” (the subject land).
(3)  A building on the subject land may exceed the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map by an amount no greater than 1.6:1 if the building is used for 1 or more of the following purposes—
(a)  co-living housing used for student accommodation,
(b)  commercial premises,
(c)  educational establishments,
(d)  entertainment facilities,
(e)  health services facilities,
(f)  hotel or motel accommodation,
(g)  information and education facilities,
(h)  light industries.
(4)  The amount of floor space granted that exceeds the floor space ratio only applies to the part of the building used for a purpose specified in subclause (3).
(5)  The reference to the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map in clause 6.21D(3)(b)(i) is taken, in its application to a building on the subject land, to be a reference to the floor space ratio that includes an amount exceeding the floor space ratio granted in accordance with subclause (3).
(6)  For the purpose of this clause, floor space below ground level of Broadway along the frontage of the site may be excluded from the calculation of gross floor area.
(7)  Development consent must not be granted under subclause (3) for development that results in a mixed use development that includes residential accommodation other than co-living housing.
(8)  Before granting consent to development under subclause (3), the consent authority is to consider whether the development promotes uses that attract pedestrian traffic along ground floor street frontages on Grose Street, Glebe.
(9)  Development promotes uses that attract pedestrian traffic under subclause (8) if, after the erection of a building, or the change of use of a building—
(a)  all premises on the ground floor of the building that face the street will be used for the purposes of business premises or retail premises, and
(b)  the premises will have active street frontages.
(10)  Subclause (8) does not apply for any part of a building to be used for any of the following—
(a)  entrances and lobbies (including as part of mixed use development),
(b)  access for fire services,
(c)  vehicular access.
(11)  The consent authority must not grant consent to development under subclause (3) for the purposes of commercial premises or hotel or motel accommodation, unless it is satisfied that appropriate measures will be taken to ensure the development is capable of achieving—
(a)  for commercial premises—a 5.5 star NABERS Energy rating, or
(b)  for hotel or motel accommodation—a 4.5 star NABERS Energy rating.
(11A)  State Environmental Planning Policy (Housing) 2021, clause 68(2)(a) does not apply to a building on the subject land.
(12)  In this clause—
NABERS Energy rating (also known as the National Australian Built Environment Rating System Energy rating) means a star rating for the environmental performance of a building, given in accordance with the national rating system that determines building performance for the purpose of the Building Energy Efficiency Disclosure Act 2010 of the Commonwealth.
6.49   12–22 Rothschild Avenue, Rosebery
(1)  This clause applies to 12–22 Rothschild Avenue, Rosebery, being Lot B, DP 308922, Lot 5, DP 309149, Lot 1, DP 314957, Lot 408, DP 315228 and Lots A and B, DP 322620.
(2)  Clause 6.21D(3)(a) does not apply to a building on land to which this clause applies.
6.50   24 Rothschild Avenue, Rosebery
(1)  This clause applies to 24 Rothschild Avenue, Rosebery, being Lots 410 and 456, DP 7534 and Lots 1 and 2, DP 456612.
(2)  Clause 6.14 and Division 4 do not apply to a building on land to which this clause applies.
(3)  Despite any other provision of this Plan, development consent must not be granted for development, on land to which this clause applies, for the purposes of residential accommodation or tourist and visitor accommodation.
6.51   72–84 Foveaux Street, Surry Hills
(1)  This clause applies to 72–84 Foveaux Street, Surry Hills, being Lot 1, DP 625093.
(2)  Despite clauses 4.3 and 4.4, the consent authority may grant development consent to alterations or additions to an existing building on the land to which this clause applies that will result in a building—
(a)  with a maximum building height of RL 55.60 metres, and
(b)  with a maximum floor space ratio of 4:1.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted under this clause unless the consent authority is satisfied that the resulting building—
(a)  will not be used for the purpose of residential accommodation or serviced apartments, and
(b)  does not include any car parking spaces except for parking spaces for vehicles required for the purposes of carrying out servicing of the building.
(4)  This clause does not limit the operation of clause 6.13 in its application to the land to which this clause applies.
6.52   1–11 Oxford Street, Paddington
(1)  The objective of this clause is to provide for additional building height and floor space for development on certain land for the purposes of hotel or motel accommodation, entertainment facilities and health services facilities.
(2)  This clause applies to 1–11 Oxford Street, Paddington, being Lots 1 and 2, DP 130269 and Lot A, DP 377984.
(3)  Despite clauses 4.3 and 4.4, the consent authority may grant development consent to alterations or additions to an existing building on the land to which this clause applies that will result in a building—
(a)  with a maximum building height of RL 68.655 metres, and
(b)  with a maximum floor space ratio of 2.95:1 above RL 47.455 metres.
(4)  Development consent must not be granted under this clause unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the development is primarily for the purposes of hotel or motel accommodation, and
(b)  the development will not endanger the structural stability of the existing building or any heritage items on or under the land, and
(c)  at least 300 square metres of the gross floor area at basement level of the resulting building will be used for the purposes of entertainment facilities, and
(d)  at least 300 square metres of the gross floor area at basement level of the resulting building will be used for the purposes of health services facilities, and
(e)  the resulting building will not be used for the purposes of residential accommodation or serviced apartments.
(5)  Clause 6.21D(3) does not apply to a building on the land to which this clause applies.
6.53   Western Gateway Sub-precinct
(1)  This clause applies to the land identified as the “Western Gateway Sub-precinct” on the Locality and Site Identification Map (the Western Gateway Sub-precinct).
(2)  Clause 2.8 extends to development in the Western Gateway Sub-precinct for a temporary use for a maximum period of 100 days (whether or not consecutive days) in any period of 12 months.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to development that results in any part of a building in the Western Gateway Sub-precinct causing additional overshadowing (within the meaning of clause 6.19(2)), at any time of year, of Prince Alfred Park between 10.00–14.00.
(4)  Development consent must not be granted to development in the Western Gateway Sub-precinct unless the consent authority has taken into consideration any guidelines made by the Planning Secretary relating to the design and amenity of the Western Gateway Sub-precinct.
(5)  The following do not apply in relation to a building in the Western Gateway Sub-precinct—
(a)  clause 6.3 and Subdivision 2 of Division 1,
(b)  clause 7.20.
(6)  Despite clause 4.3, development consent may be granted to development that results in 1 or more of the following—
(a)  the height of a building in Block A exceeding the maximum height shown for Block A on the Height of Buildings Map, but only if the height of the building will not exceed RL 200.2 metres,
(b)  the height of a building in Block B exceeding the maximum height shown for Block B on the Height of Buildings Map, but only if the height of the building will not exceed RL 205.8 metres,
(c)  the height of a building in Block C exceeding the maximum height shown for Block C on the Height of Buildings Map, but only if the height of the building will not exceed RL 211.9 metres.
(7)  Despite clause 4.4, development consent may be granted to development that results in 1 or more of the following—
(a)  the floor space ratio for a building in Block A exceeding the maximum floor space ratio shown for Block A on the Floor Space Ratio Map, but only if the gross floor area of all buildings in Block A will not exceed 77,000 square metres,
(b)  the floor space ratio for a building in Block B exceeding the maximum floor space ratio shown for Block B on the Floor Space Ratio Map, but only if the gross floor area of all buildings in Block B will not exceed 155,000 square metres,
(c)  the floor space ratio for a building in Block C exceeding the maximum floor space ratio shown for Block C on the Floor Space Ratio Map, but only if the gross floor area of all buildings in Block C will not exceed 43,000 square metres.
(8)  Development consent must not be granted under subclause (6) or (7) unless the consent authority is satisfied that the resulting building will not be used for the purposes of residential accommodation.
(8A)  Development consent must not be granted for the erection of a building (the new building) on Block C above the existing Adina Hotel building (the existing building) unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the total gross floor area of the new building and the existing building will not be more than 41,000 square metres, and
(b)  the building area of the new building at any height will not be more than 1,300 square metres, and
(c)  the new building will have a setback of—
(i)  at least 5 metres from the north east and south west corners of the existing building, and
(ii)  at least 12 metres from a building on Block A, and
(d)  the new building will not project more than 16 metres past the southern facade of the existing building.
(9)  Clause 6.21D(1)–(3) do not apply to development in Block A, Block B or Block C.
(10)  In this clause—
Block A means that part of the Western Gateway Sub-precinct identified as “Block A” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
Block B means that part of the Western Gateway Sub-precinct identified as “Block B” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
Block C means that part of the Western Gateway Sub-precinct identified as Block C” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
building area for a building means the floor area of a building as measured to the external face of the external walls.
Prince Alfred Park means the location identified as “Prince Alfred Park” (as shown with blue hatching) on the Sun Access Protection Map.
6.54   17–31 Cowper Street and 2A–2D Wentworth Park Road, Glebe
(1)  This clause applies to the following land at Glebe—
(a)  17–31 Cowper Street, being Lot 17, DP 244897 (the southern site),
(b)  2A–2D Wentworth Park Road, being Lot 18, DP 244897 (the northern site).
(2)  Despite clause 4.4, the consent authority may grant development consent to development on land to which this clause applies that will result in a building—
(a)  for the southern site—with a maximum floor space ratio of 3.1:1, and
(b)  for the northern site—with a maximum floor space ratio of 4.3:1.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted under subclause (2) unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the development includes development on the northern site for the purposes of residential accommodation, and
(b)  100% of the gross floor area of the northern site used for the purposes of residential accommodation will be used for the purposes of affordable housing, and
(c)  the affordable housing will be provided by or on behalf of a public authority or a social housing provider, and
(d)  for development that is BASIX affected development—the development exceeds the BASIX commitment for energy for the development by not less than 5 points.
(4)  Clause 6.21D(3) does not apply to a building on land to which this clause applies.
6.55   4–22 Wentworth Avenue, Surry Hills
(1)  This clause applies to Lots 42–51, DP 6534, 4–22 Wentworth Avenue, Surry Hills.
(2)  The consent authority may grant development consent to alterations or additions to an existing building on the land to which this clause applies that will result in a building—
(a)  on Lots 42–46, DP 6534, 4–12 Wentworth Avenue—with a maximum building height of RL 92.59 metres, and
(b)  on Lots 47–51, DP 6534, 14–22 Wentworth Avenue—with a maximum building height of RL 50 metres, and
(c)  with a maximum floor space ratio of 5.7:1.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted under this clause unless the consent authority is satisfied that the building will be used only for the following purposes—
(a)  commercial premises,
(b)  educational establishments,
(c)  entertainment facilities,
(d)  health services facilities,
(e)  hotel or motel accommodation,
(f)  information or education facilities,
(g)  light industries.
(4)  Clause 6.21D(3)(a) does not apply to a building on the land to which this clause applies.
6.56   24–40 Wentworth Avenue, Surry Hills
(1)  This clause applies to 24–40 Wentworth Avenue, Surry Hills, being—
(a)  Lots 52–59, DP 6534, and
(b)  part of Lot 1, DP 1031245.
(2)  Despite clause 4.3, the consent authority may grant development consent to alterations or additions to an existing building on the land to which this clause applies that will result in a building—
(a)  on the land at 24–38 Wentworth Avenue, being Lots 52–59, DP 6534—with a maximum building height of RL 50 metres, and
(b)  on the land at 40 Wentworth Avenue, being part of Lot 1, DP 1031245—with a maximum building height of RL 44.26 metres.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted under this clause unless the consent authority is satisfied that the building will be used only for the following purposes—
(a)  commercial premises,
(b)  educational establishments,
(c)  entertainment facilities,
(d)  health services facilities,
(e)  hotel or motel accommodation,
(f)  information or education facilities,
(g)  light industries.
6.57   1–3 Burrows Road, St Peters
(1)  This clause applies to Lot 11, DP 606737 and Lot 1, DP 1227450, 1–3 Burrows Road, St Peters.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development involving the erection of a building on land to which this clause applies unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the development will provide for setbacks of at least 6 metres from Burrows Road and Canal Road that are landscaped and not built on, and
(b)  the development will incorporate the principles of ecologically sustainable development, including measures—
(i)  to minimise the consumption of energy and water, and
(ii)  to capture energy and water on site, and
(c)  the development will incorporate measures to minimise the adverse impact of emissions from the road tunnel ventilation facility at Canal Road.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to development for the purposes of business identification signs and building identification signs on land to which this clause applies unless the consent authority is satisfied that the signage—
(a)  will be limited to those parts of the development fronting Burrows Road and Canal Road, and
(b)  will not be visible from the St Peters Interchange, and
(c)  will not adversely affect the visual amenity of the land.
(4)  Clause 6.21D(3)(b) does not apply to a building on land to which this clause applies.
6.58   187–189 Thomas Street, Haymarket
(1)  This clause applies to Lot 100, DP 804958, 187–189 Thomas Street, Haymarket (the subject land).
(2)  The maximum building height for a building on the subject land is RL 226.8 metres.
(3)  The maximum floor space ratio for a building on the subject land at or above ground level (existing) is the floor space ratio determined by the sum of all of the following—
(a)  the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map,
(b)  8.89:1,
(c)  any accommodation floor space for which the building is eligible under clause 6.4,
(d)  any end of journey floor space for which the building is eligible under clause 6.6,
(e)  if the building is a building demonstrating design excellence—any amount of floor space, to be determined by the consent authority, of up to 10% of the floor space ratio determined by the sum of paragraphs (a)–(d).
(4)  Despite subclause (3), the floor space ratio for a building on the subject land at or above ground level (existing) must not exceed 20:1.
(5)  The maximum floor space ratio for a building on the subject land below ground level (existing) is 1.5:1, but only if—
(a)  the building at or above ground level (existing) is used for the purposes of hotel or motel accommodation or high technology industries, and
(b)  the building below ground level (existing) is used as an auditorium, and
(c)  if the building below ground level (existing) is also used for other purposes, the other purposes are ancillary to the hotel or motel accommodation or high technology industries.
(6)  Development consent must not be granted to development that results in a building on the subject land exceeding the maximum building height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map, or exceeding the maximum floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map, unless the consent authority is satisfied that the development will result in—
(a)  a through-site pedestrian link and publicly accessible open space on the subject land, and
(b)  business premises and retail premises with frontages to the through-site pedestrian link.
(7)  Development consent must not be granted to development that results in a building on the subject land being used for the purposes of residential accommodation or serviced apartments.
(8)  Clause 6.21D(3) does not apply to a building on the subject land.
(9)  In this clause—
building demonstrating design excellence has the same meaning as in Division 4.
6.59   600–660 Elizabeth Street, Redfern
(1)  This clause applies to Lot 1, DP 1249145, 600–660 Elizabeth Street, Redfern.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development on land to which this clause applies unless the consent authority is satisfied the buildings on the land will not overshadow Redfern Park and Oval between 9am and 3pm.
(3)  A building on land to which this clause applies may exceed the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map by—
(a)  if at least 3,500m2 of floor area of all buildings on the land is used for the purposes of community facilities—up to 0.57:1, and
(b)  if all BASIX affected development on the land exceeds the BASIX commitments for energy and water for the development by at least 5 points—up to 0.15:1.
(4)  Development consent must not be granted under subclause (3) unless the consent authority—
(a)  is satisfied—
(i)  at least 30% of the gross floor area used for the purposes of residential accommodation will be used for the purposes of affordable housing, and
(ii)  the affordable housing will be provided by or on behalf of a public authority or a social housing provider, and
(b)  has considered the Design Guide—600–660 Elizabeth Street, Redfern, prepared by the Planning Secretary and published in February 2022.
(5)  In calculating the floor space ratio for the purposes of this clause, the gross floor area of buildings on land to which this clause applies does not include the floor area used for the purposes of community facilities.
(6)  Clause 7.20 does not apply to a building on land to which this clause applies.
(7)  For land to which this clause applies, the reference to the amount permitted as a result of the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map in clause 6.21D(3)(b)(i) is taken to include an additional amount that is to be permitted by the consent authority under subclause (3) of this clause.
6.60   30–62 Barcom Avenue, Darlinghurst
(1)  This clause applies to Lot B, DP 111138, 30–62 Barcom Avenue, Darlinghurst.
(2)  A building on land to which this clause applies may have—
(a)  a floor space ratio of up to 3.75:1, and
(b)  a height of up to 18m.
(3)  Subclause (2) applies if—
(a)  the consent authority is satisfied that—
(i)  the building will not be used for the purposes of residential accommodation or tourist and visitor accommodation, and
(ii)  the building will be used only for the purposes of commercial premises, and
(iii)  the development will not create car parking spaces associated with a part of the building used for the purposes of commercial premises, and
(b)  the consent authority has considered the impact the development will have on solar access to 64 Barcom Avenue, Darlinghurst and 61–63 McLachlan Avenue, Darlinghurst.
(4)  Subclause (3)(a)(ii) does not apply to a part of the building in existence before development consent is granted.
6.60A   North Alexandria—building height
(1)  This clause applies to land identified as “North Alexandria” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
(2)  Clause 6.21D(3)(a) does not apply to development on land to which this clause applies.
6.60B   Botany Road Precinct Opportunity Land
(1)  The objective of this clause is to create incentives for carrying out development—
(a)  for employment generating uses, and
(b)  if compatible with existing non-residential land uses—to provide affordable housing, and
(c)  to provide community infrastructure, and
(d)  resulting in buildings with high environmental performance.
(2)  This clause applies to Botany Road Precinct Opportunity Land.
(3)  A building on land to which this clause applies may exceed the maximum height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map if—
(a)  the building is used only for—
(i)  non-residential purposes, or
(ii)  non-residential purposes and to provide affordable housing, and
(b)  the height of the building does not exceed the height shown for the land on the Alternative Height of Buildings Map.
(4)  A building on land to which this clause applies may exceed the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map if the floor space ratio of the building does not exceed the floor space ratio shown for the land on—
(a)  for a building used only for non-residential purposes—the Alternative Floor Space Ratio Map—Employment Sites, or
(b)  for a building used only for non-residential purposes and to provide affordable housing—the Alternative Floor Space Ratio Map—Affordable Housing Sites.
(5)  In calculating the floor space ratio for the building under subclause (4), land identified as “Classified Road (SP2)” on the Land Reservation Acquisition Map must not be included in the site area.
(6)  Subclauses (3) and (4) do not apply unless the consent authority is satisfied—
(a)  the development provides, or will provide, appropriate public access and laneways, and
(b)  if the development is BASIX affected development—the building is capable of exceeding the BASIX commitments by at least—
(i)  for energy—10 points, and
(ii)  for water—5 points.
(7)  Subclauses (3) and (4) do not apply to development involving the provision of affordable housing unless the consent authority is satisfied—
(a)  the affordable housing will be owned and managed by a registered community housing provider, and
(b)  the affordable housing will be provided in accordance with the City of Sydney Affordable Housing Program, adopted by the Council on 24 August 2020, and
(c)  the development will not reduce the capacity of adjoining sites used or intended to be used for non-residential purposes, and
(d)  the development is compatible with the existing and approved uses of land near the development, having regard to the following—
(i)  the impact the development, including its bulk, scale and traffic generation, is likely to have on the existing and approved uses,
(ii)  the services and infrastructure that are or will be available to meet the demands resulting from the development,
(iii)  the impact the uses are likely to have on the health, well-being and amenity of residents of buildings resulting from the development, and
(e)  the following part of the building will be used only for non-residential purposes—
(i)  for a building on Lot 11, DP 219505 and Lot 2, DP 136012, 74–88 Botany Road, Alexandria—the ground floor,
(ii)  for a building on other land—the ground floor and the first floor.
(8)  Clause 6.21D(3)(a) does not apply to a building for which development consent is granted under this clause.
(9)  In this clause—
non-residential purpose means development for a purpose other than the following—
(a)  residential accommodation,
(b)  serviced apartments.
6.60C   2 Chifley Square, Sydney
(1)  The objectives of this clause are to—
(a)  prevent development for the purposes of residential accommodation or serviced apartments on land to which this clause applies, and
(b)  encourage development that complements existing buildings on the land and the surrounding area, and
(c)  require the removal of commercially operated car parking.
(2)  This clause applies to Lot 10, DP 777545, 2 Chifley Square, Sydney.
(3)  The maximum floor space ratio for a building on the land to which this clause applies is 20.63:1, which includes—
(a)  the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map, and
(b)  any additional floor space for which the building is eligible under clauses 6.4, 6.6 and 6.21D(3)(b).
(4)  Development consent must not be granted under subclause (3) unless the consent authority is satisfied—
(a)  the building will not be used for the purposes of—
(i)  residential accommodation, or
(ii)  serviced apartments, or
(iii)  commercially operated car parks, and
(b)  the floor space ratio of the part of the building at or above ground level (existing) will be no more than 20.33:1.
(5)  If the building is not eligible for additional floor space under clause 6.6 or 6.21D(3)(b), the maximum amount of floor space for which consent may be granted under subclause (3) is reduced by the amount of additional floor space for which the building could otherwise have been eligible under the clauses.
(6)  Clauses 6.5A and 6.21D(3)(a) do not apply to the building.
6.60D   Oxford Street Cultural and Creative Precinct
(1)  The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to encourage development for cultural or creative purposes by providing a greater maximum height and floor space ratio for certain buildings,
(b)  to ensure the additional height and floor space reflects the desired character of the area,
(c)  to minimise adverse impacts on the amenity of the surrounding area,
(d)  to promote Oxford Street as a local centre for commercial, education, health and tourism opportunities,
(e)  to reinforce the status of the Oxford Street Cultural and Creative Precinct as a strategic centre encouraging development for cultural or creative purposes.
(2)  This clause applies to the Oxford Street Cultural and Creative Precinct.
(3)  A building on land to which this clause applies may have either or both of the following—
(a)  a height not exceeding the maximum height shown for the land on the Alternative Height of Buildings Map,
(b)  a floor space ratio not exceeding the maximum floor space ratio shown for the land on the Alternative Floor Space Ratio Map.
(4)  Subclause (3) applies only if—
(a)  the building will be used for the purposes of one or more of the following—
(i)  commercial premises,
(ii)  community facilities,
(iii)  entertainment facilities,
(iv)  health services facilities,
(v)  hotel or motel accommodation,
(vi)  information and education facilities,
(vii)  light industries, and
(b)  for the erection of a new building or the rebuilding or alteration of an existing building that is not used for cultural or creative purposes—at least 10% of the gross floor area of the building resulting from the development will be used for cultural or creative purposes, and
(c)  for the rebuilding or alteration of an existing building used for cultural or creative purposes—the amount of floor space used for cultural or creative purposes will be at least the sum of the following—
(i)  the amount of floor space used for cultural or creative purposes immediately before the development is carried out,
(ii)  10% of the gross floor area of the building resulting from the development.
(5)  Development consent must not be granted to development on land to which this clause applies unless the consent authority has considered whether the development promotes land uses that will attract pedestrian traffic along ground floor street frontages in the Oxford Street Cultural and Creative Precinct.
(6)  Development consent must not be granted to the erection or change of use of a building with a standard height and floor space ratio on land to which this clause applies unless the consent authority has considered the impact of the development on—
(a)  the status of the Oxford Street Cultural and Creative Precinct as a strategic centre encouraging development for cultural or creative purposes, and
(b)  the availability of floor space to be used for cultural or creative purposes.
(7)  A building must not be erected on the following land in Darlinghurst unless erected on a site with a site area of at least 1,000m2—
(a)  Lot 2, DP 51864, 379–379A Bourke Street,
(b)  Lot 1, DP 57383, 381 Bourke Street,
(c)  Lots 1 and 2, DP 193949, 383–387 Bourke Street,
(d)  Lot 1, DP 33381, 189 Oxford Street.
(8)  A building must not be erected on the following land in Paddington unless erected on a site with a site area of at least 1,142.5m2—
(a)  Lot 1, DP 84976, 21–25 Oxford Street,
(b)  Lot 1, DP 1045284, 27–33 Oxford Street.
(9)  If the following land in Darlinghurst is amalgamated into a single lot, the maximum floor space ratio for all buildings on the lot is 3.3:1—
(a)  Lot 100, DP 746537, 4–6 Flinders Street,
(b)  Lots 1–4, DP 9347, 10–24 Flinders Street and 4–6 and 8–10 Taylor Street,
(c)  Lot 1, DP 819569 and Lot 5, DP 9347, 2 Sturt Street.
(10)  Clause 6.21D(3) does not apply to a building on land to which this clause applies.
(11)  In this clause—
cultural or creative purposemeans a purpose involving live entertainment, music, performing arts, film or television, media, advertising, fine arts and craft, photography, publishing, fashion, industrial or graphic design, and includes museums or archives related to a cultural or creative purpose.
standard height and floor space ratio means—
(a)  a height not exceeding the maximum height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map, and
(b)  a floor space ratio not exceeding the maximum floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map.
6.60E   Flinders Street and Oxford Street
(1)  This clause applies to land in Darlinghurst and Paddington with a street frontage to Flinders Street or Oxford Street.
(2)  A building on land to which this clause applies may have a floor space ratio exceeding the maximum permissible FSR by up to 0.8:1 if the additional GFA is—
(a)  located in a basement, and
(b)  used for the purposes of entertainment facilities.
(3)  Clause 6.21D(3) does not apply to a building on land to which this clause applies.
(4)  In this clause—
additional GFA means the gross floor area equal to the amount by which the floor space ratio of the building exceeds the maximum permissible FSR.
maximum permissible FSR means the maximum floor space ratio shown for the land on the—
(a)  Floor Space Ratio Map, or
(b)  Alternative Floor Space Ratio Map.
6.60F   757–763 George Street, Haymarket
(1)  The objective of this clause is to encourage—
(a)  land uses other than residential accommodation or serviced apartments, and
(b)  a satisfactory distribution of built form and floor space that is appropriate to the surrounding area, and
(c)  the adaptive re-use of a heritage item.
(2)  This clause applies to Lot 11, DP 70261 and Lot 1, DP 1031645, 757–763 George Street, Haymarket.
(3)  The maximum height for a building is RL 117.87m.
(4)  The part of a building located at or above ground level (existing) may have a floor space ratio of up to the ratio of the sum of the following to the site area—
(a)  the gross floor area permitted as a result of applying the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map,
(b)  the gross floor area resulting from applying a floor space ratio of 1.09:1,
(c)  any accommodation floor space for which the building is eligible under clause 6.4,
(d)  any end of journey floor space for which the building is eligible under clause 6.6,
(e)  if the building is a building demonstrating design excellence—the gross floor area, determined by the consent authority, of up to 10% of the sum of the amounts specified in paragraphs (a)–(d).
(5)  The floor space ratio calculated under subclause (4) must not exceed 11.1:1.
(6)  The maximum floor space ratio for the part of a building located below ground level (existing) is 0.63:1 if—
(a)  part of the building located at or above ground level (existing) will be used for the purposes of hotel or motel accommodation, and
(b)  the consent authority is satisfied the part of the building located below ground level (existing) will be used only for retail premises or entertainment facilities ancillary to the hotel or motel accommodation, and
(c)  there will be a separate entrance at street level that provides direct access to the part of the building located below ground level (existing).
(7)  Development consent must not be granted to the erection of a building that exceeds the maximum height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map or the maximum floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map unless the consent authority is satisfied—
(a)  the heritage item on the land will be retained and conserved, and
(b)  the development will result in business premises and retail premises at street level, and
(c)  adequate provision will be made for the following within the site—
(i)  the loading and unloading of goods,
(ii)  vehicle access, including emergency vehicles,
(iii)  the collection and management of waste, and
(d)  the building will not be used for residential accommodation or serviced apartments.
(8)  Clause 6.21D(3) does not apply to a building on land to which this clause applies.
(9)  In this clause—
building demonstrating design excellence has the same meaning as in Division 4.
Division 6 Pyrmont Peninsula
6.61   Preliminary
(1)  In this Division—
Pyrmont Peninsula Design Guidelines means the Pyrmont Peninsula Design Guidelines, published by the Department on 29 July 2022 and available on the NSW Planning Portal.
Pyrmont Peninsula Urban Design Report means the Pyrmont Peninsula Urban Design Report, published by the Department on 29 July 2022 and available on the NSW Planning Portal.
(2)  Clause 6.21D(3) does not apply to a building on land to which clause 6.63, 6.64, 6.65 or 6.66 applies.
6.62   Concurrence of Planning Secretary
(1)  Development consent must not be granted to development under this Division unless the consent authority has obtained the concurrence of the Planning Secretary.
(2)  In deciding whether to grant concurrence, the Planning Secretary must consider the following—
(a)  the impact of the development on—
(i)  existing designated State public infrastructure, and
(ii)  the need for additional designated State public infrastructure,
(b)  the cumulative impact of the development with other development that has, or is likely to be, carried out in surrounding areas on—
(i)  existing designated State public infrastructure, and
(ii)  the need for additional designated State public infrastructure,
(c)  the steps taken to address those impacts, including whether a planning agreement has been, or will be, entered into contributing to designated State public infrastructure,
(d)  the Pyrmont Peninsula Infrastructure Delivery Plan, published by the Department on 29 July 2022 and available on the NSW Planning Portal.
(3)  In deciding whether to grant concurrence, the Planning Secretary must also consult the public authorities that the Planning Secretary considers relevant to the development.
(4)  The concurrence of the Planning Secretary is not required if all or part of the land on which the development will be carried out is in a special contributions area to which a determination under the Act, section 7.23 applies.
(5)  In this clause—
designated State public infrastructure means public facilities or services of the following kinds, provided or financed by the State or, if provided or financed by the private sector, to the extent of the financial or in-kind contribution by the State—
(a)  State and regional roads,
(b)  bus interchanges and bus lanes,
(c)  rail infrastructure and land,
(d)  regional parks and public spaces,
(e)  social infrastructure and facilities, including schools, hospitals, emergency services and justice facilities.
6.63   Part of Star Casino at 20–80 Pyrmont Street, Pyrmont
(1)  This clause applies to land at 20–80 Pyrmont Street, Pyrmont shown as “Area A”, “Area B” and “Area C” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
(2)  The maximum height for a building in “Area A” is RL 51.8m if the consent authority is satisfied—
(a)  the building will—
(i)  be used for the purposes of entertainment facilities, and
(ii)  not be used for the purposes of residential accommodation, and
(b)  the development is consistent with the Pyrmont Peninsula Urban Design Report.
(3)  The maximum height for a building in “Area B” is RL 110m if the consent authority is satisfied—
(a)  the building will—
(i)  be used for the purposes of hotel or motel accommodation and ancillary retail premises and function centres, and
(ii)  not be used for the purposes of residential accommodation, and
(b)  the development is consistent with—
(i)  the Pyrmont Peninsula Urban Design Report, and
(ii)  the Pyrmont Peninsula Design Guidelines.
(4)  The maximum height for a building in “Area C” is RL 35.3m if the consent authority is satisfied—
(a)  the building will not be used for the purposes of residential accommodation, and
(b)  the development is consistent with the Pyrmont Peninsula Urban Design Report.
6.64   UTS buildings at Harris Street, Ultimo
(1)  This clause applies to development on Lot A, DP 87139, Lot 1, DP 87261 and Lot 9, DP 86567, 622–632, 634–642 and 644–644A Harris Street, Ultimo.
(2)  If the consent authority is satisfied the development is consistent with the Pyrmont Peninsula Urban Design Report and the Pyrmont Peninsula Design Guidelines—
(a)  the maximum height for a building is RL 68m, and
(b)  the maximum floor space ratio is 5.93:1.
6.65   Part of Pyrmont Station complex at 37–69 Union Street, Pyrmont
(1)  This clause applies to Lot 1, DP 620352, 37–69 Union St, Pyrmont.
(2)  If the consent authority has considered the Pyrmont Peninsula Design Guidelines—
(a)  the maximum height for a building is RL 120m, and
(b)  the maximum floor space ratio is 9:1.
(3)  Floor space used for the purposes of rail infrastructure facilities, within the meaning of State Environmental Planning Policy (Transport and Infrastructure) 2021, Part 2.3, Division 15, is excluded for the purposes of calculating the floor space ratio.
6.66   Part of Pyrmont Station complex at 26–32 Pyrmont Bridge Road, Pyrmont
(1)  This clause applies to Lot 10, DP 1028280, 26–32 Pyrmont Bridge Road, Pyrmont.
(2)  If the consent authority has considered the Pyrmont Peninsula Design Guidelines, the maximum height for a building is RL 37.75m.
Part 7 Local provisions—general
Division 1 Car parking ancillary to other development
7.1   Objectives and application of Division
(1)  The objectives of this Division are—
(a)  to identify the maximum number of car parking spaces that may be provided to service particular uses of land, and
(b)  to minimise the amount of vehicular traffic generated because of proposed development.
(2)  This Division applies to development for any purpose if car parking spaces are to be provided in relation to that purpose but not if the development is for the purpose of a car park.
(3)  Nothing in this Division requires a reduction in the number of car parking spaces in an existing building.
7.2   Interpretation
(1)  For the purposes of this Division—
car parking space means a space intended to be used for the parking of cars that is ancillary to another land use on the site, but does not include any of the following—
(a)  a place primarily used for the purpose of washing vehicles,
(b)  a place primarily used for the purpose of loading or unloading of goods,
(c)  a place primarily used for the purpose of storing bicycles,
(d)  a car parking space in a car park,
(e)  a car parking space for the exclusive use of vehicles belonging to a car share scheme.
car share scheme means a scheme in which a body corporate, an unincorporated body or a public authority owns or manages and maintains vehicles for shared or communal use and hires those vehicles exclusively to members of the scheme for occasional use for short periods of time, on demand and on a pay-as-you go basis.
(2)  For the purposes of this Division, land is in Category A, Category B or Category C if it is shown on the Land Use and Transport Integration Map as being in one of those categories. However, land is taken to be in another of those categories if—
(a)  the land is part of a site that includes land in that other category, and
(b)  this Division would permit a greater number of car parking spaces if the land were in that other category.
(3)  For the purposes of this Division, land is in Category D, Category E or Category F if it is shown on the Public Transport Accessibility Level Map as being in one of those categories. However, land is taken to be in another of those categories if—
(a)  the land is part of a site that includes land in that other category, and
(b)  this Division would permit a greater number of car parking spaces if the land were in that other category.
(4)  More than one provision of this Division may apply in the case of a mixed use development and in such a case—
(a)  the maximum number of car parking spaces is the sum of the number of spaces permitted under each of those provisions, and
(b)  a reference in those provisions to a building, is taken to be a reference to the parts of the building in which the relevant use occurs.
7.3   Car parking spaces not to exceed maximum set out in this Division
(1)  Development consent must not be granted to development that includes car parking spaces in connection with a proposed use of land if the total number of car parking spaces (including existing car parking spaces) provided on the site would be greater than the maximum set out in this Division.
(2)  If the maximum number of car parking spaces under this Division is not a whole number, the number is to be rounded to the nearest whole number.
7.4   Dwelling houses, attached dwellings and semi-detached dwellings
The maximum number of car parking spaces for dwelling houses, attached dwellings and semi-detached dwellings is as follows—
(a)  for land in category A—1 space for each dwelling,
(b)  for land in category B—2 spaces for each dwelling having more than 2 bedrooms and 1 space for each other dwelling,
(c)  for land in category C—2 spaces for each dwelling.
7.5   Residential flat buildings, dual occupancies and multi dwelling housing
(1)  The maximum number of car parking spaces for residential flat buildings, dual occupancies and multi dwelling housing is as follows—
(a)  on land in category A—
(i)  for each studio dwelling—0.1 spaces, and
(ii)  for each 1 bedroom dwelling—0.3 spaces, and
(iii)  for each 2 bedroom dwelling—0.7 spaces, and
(iv)  for each 3 or more bedroom dwelling—1 space,
(b)  on land in category B—
(i)  for each studio dwelling—0.2 spaces, and
(ii)  for each 1 bedroom dwelling—0.4 spaces, and
(iii)  for each 2 bedroom dwelling—0.8 spaces, and
(iv)  for each 3 or more bedroom dwelling—1.1 spaces, and
(v)  for each dwelling up to 30 dwellings—0.167 spaces, and
(vi)  for each dwelling more than 30 and up to 70 dwellings—0.1 spaces, and
(vii)  for each dwelling more than 70 dwellings—0.05 spaces,
(c)  on land in category C—
(i)  for each studio dwelling—0.4 spaces, and
(ii)  for each 1 bedroom dwelling—0.5 spaces, and
(iii)  for each 2 bedroom dwelling—1 space, and
(iv)  for each 3 or more bedroom dwelling—1.2 spaces, and
(v)  for each dwelling up to 30 dwellings—0.2 spaces, and
(vi)  for each dwelling more than 30 and up to 70 dwellings—0.125 spaces, and
(vii)  for each dwelling more than 70 dwellings—0.067 spaces.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development that includes car parking spaces referred to in subclause (1)(b)(v)–(vii) or (c)(v)–(vii) unless the consent authority is satisfied that those car parking spaces will be used for the purposes of providing parking for visitors to the buildings to which those parking spaces relate and not for the purposes of providing parking for any resident of those buildings.
7.6   Office premises and business premises
The maximum number of car parking spaces for a building used for the purposes of office premises or business premises is as follows—
(a)  if the building is on land in category D and has a floor space ratio of no more than 3.5:1—1 space for each 175 square metres of gross floor area of the building used for those purposes,
(b)  if the building is on land in category E and has a floor space ratio of no more than 2.5:1—1 space for each 125 square metres of gross floor area of the building used for those purposes,
(c)  if the building is on land in category F and has a floor space ratio of no more than 1.5:1—1 space for each 75 square metres of gross floor area of the building used for those purposes,
(d)  if the building is on land in category D, E or F and has a floor space ratio greater than that specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) respectively, the following formula is to be used—
 

where—
M is the maximum number of parking spaces, and
G is the gross floor area of all office premises and business premises in the building in square metres, and
A is the site area in square metres, and
T is the total gross floor area of all buildings on the site in square metres.
7.7   Retail premises
(1)  This clause does not apply to a building if the building has more than 2,000 square metres of gross floor area used for the purposes of retail premises.
(2)  The maximum number of car parking spaces for a building used for the purposes of retail premises is as follows—
(a)  if the building is on land in category E—1 space for each 60 square metres of gross floor area of the building used for those purposes,
(b)  if the building is on land in category F—1 space for each 50 square metres of gross floor area of the building used for those purposes,
(c)  if the building is on land in category D and has a floor space ratio of no more than 3.5:1—1 space for each 90 square metres of gross floor area of the building used for those purposes,
(d)  if the building is on land in category D and has a floor space ratio greater than 3.5:1, the following formula is to be used—
 
where—
M is the maximum number of parking spaces, and
G is the gross floor area of all retail premises in the building in square metres, and
A is the site area in square metres, and
T is the total gross floor area of all buildings on the site in square metres.
7.8   Industry and warehouse or distribution centres
(1)  The maximum number of car parking spaces for a building used for the purposes of industry is as follows—
(a)  if the building is on land in category D—1 space for each 150 square metres of gross floor area of the building used for those purposes,
(b)  if the building is on land in category E—1 space for each 125 square metres of gross floor area of the building used for those purposes,
(c)  if the building is on land in category F—1 space for each 100 square metres of gross floor area of the building used for those purposes.
(2)  The maximum number of car parking spaces for a building used for the purposes of warehouse or distribution centres is as follows—
(a)  if the building is on land in category D—1 space for each 500 square metres of gross floor area of the building used for those purposes,
(b)  if the building is on land in category E—1 space for each 400 square metres of gross floor area of the building used for those purposes,
(c)  if the building is on land in category F—1 space for each 300 square metres of gross floor area of the building used for those purposes.
7.9   Other land uses
(1) Serviced apartments and hotel or motel accommodation The maximum number of car parking spaces for a building used for the purposes of serviced apartments or hotel or motel accommodation is—
(a)  1 space for every 4 bedrooms up to 100 bedrooms, and
(b)  1 space for every 5 bedrooms more than 100 bedrooms.
(2) Centre-based child care facilities The maximum number of car parking spaces for a building used for the purposes of a centre-based child care facility is 1 space plus 1 space for every 100 square metres of the gross floor area of the building used for those purposes.
(3) Information and education facilities The maximum number of car parking spaces for a building used for the purposes of information and education facilities is 1 space for every 200 square metres of the gross floor area of the building used for those purposes.
(4) Health consulting rooms and medical centres The maximum number of car parking spaces for a building used for the purposes of health consulting rooms or medical centres on any land is 2 spaces for every consulting room.
(5) Places of public worship and entertainment facilities The maximum number of car parking spaces for a building used for the purposes of a place of public worship or an entertainment facility is whichever of the following provides the greater number of spaces—
(a)  1 space for every 10 seats, or
(b)  1 space for every 30 square metres of the gross floor area of the building used for those purposes.
Division 2 Foreshore development
7.10   Foreshore building line
(1)  The objective of this clause is to ensure that development in the foreshore area will not impact on natural foreshore processes or affect the significance and amenity of the area.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted for development on land in the foreshore area except for the following—
(a)  the extension, alteration or rebuilding of an existing building wholly or partly in the foreshore area,
(b)  the erection of a building in the foreshore area, if the levels, depth or other exceptional features of the site make it appropriate to do so,
(c)  development for the purposes of boat sheds, sea retaining walls, wharves, slipways, jetties, waterway access stairs, swimming pools, fences, cycleways, walking trails, picnic facilities or other recreation facilities (outdoor).
(3)  Development consent must not be granted under this clause unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the development will contribute to achieving the objectives for the zone in which the land is located, and
(b)  the appearance of any proposed structure, from both the waterway and adjacent foreshore areas, will be compatible with the surrounding area, and
(c)  the development will not cause environmental harm such as—
(i)  pollution or siltation of the waterway, or
(ii)  an adverse effect on surrounding uses, marine habitat, wetland areas, flora or fauna habitats, or
(iii)  an adverse effect on drainage patterns, and
(d)  the development will not cause congestion of, or generate conflicts between, people using open space areas or the waterway, and
(e)  opportunities to provide continuous public access along the foreshore and to the waterway will not be compromised, and
(f)  any historic, scientific, cultural, social, archaeological, architectural, natural or aesthetic significance of the land on which the development is to be carried out and of surrounding land will be maintained, and
(g)  in the case of development for the alteration or rebuilding of an existing building wholly or partly in the foreshore area, the alteration or rebuilding will not have an adverse impact on the amenity or aesthetic appearance of the foreshore, and
(h)  sea level rise or change of flooding patterns as a result of climate change have been considered.
7.11   Development on the foreshore must ensure access
In deciding whether to grant development consent for development in the foreshore area, the consent authority must consider whether and to what extent the development would encourage the following—
(a)  continuous public access to and along the foreshore through or adjacent to the proposed development,
(b)  public access to link with existing or proposed open space,
(c)  public access to be secured by appropriate covenants, agreements or other instruments registered on the title to land,
(d)  public access to be located above mean high water mark,
(e)  the reinforcing of the foreshore character and respect for existing environmental conditions.
7.12   Development between Elizabeth Bay House and the foreshore
(1)  This clause applies to land at 26–32 Billyard Avenue Elizabeth Bay, being—
(a)  Lots C and D, DP 401972, and
(b)  Lots A and B, DP 414391, and
(c)  Lot 1, DP 984249.
(2)  Before granting development consent to development on land to which this clause applies, the consent authority must take into consideration the impact of the proposed development (including the bulk and height of the development and the materials proposed to be used) on—
(a)  the historic and visual relationship between Sydney Harbour, the foreshore and Elizabeth Bay House, and
(b)  the views to and from Elizabeth Bay House and the McElhone Reserve.
Division 3 Affordable housing
7.13   Contribution for purpose of affordable housing
(1)  This clause applies to the following development—
(a)  development on land at Green Square or Ultimo-Pyrmont, or on southern employment land or residual land that involves—
(i)  the erection of a new building the gross floor area of which is more than 200 square metres, or
(ii)  alterations to an existing building that will result in the creation of more than 200 square metres of gross floor area that is intended to be used for the purpose of residential accommodation, or
(iii)  alterations to an existing building that will result in the creation of more than 60 square metres of gross floor area that is intended to be used for a purpose other than residential accommodation, or
(iv)  the demolition of existing floor area and the subsequent creation, whether for the same or a different purpose, of more than 200 square metres of gross floor area,
(b)  development on land at Green Square or Ultimo-Pyrmont, or on southern employment land, that involves a change of use of more than 60 square metres of existing floor area of a building,
(c)  development on residual land that involves a change of use of existing floor area from other than residential accommodation to residential accommodation or tourist and visitor accommodation,
(d)  development on land at Central Sydney that involves—
(i)  the creation of more than 100 square metres of gross floor area, or
(ii)  the demolition of existing floor area and the subsequent creation, whether for the same or a different purpose, of more than 100 square metres of gross floor area, or
(iii)  a change of use of existing floor area from other than residential accommodation to residential accommodation or tourist and visitor accommodation.
(2)  The consent authority may, when granting development consent to development to which this clause applies, impose a condition requiring a contribution equivalent to the applicable affordable housing levy contribution for the development provided for in subclause (2A), (2B) or (2C).
(2A)  The affordable housing levy contribution for development on land at Green Square, on Pyrmont Peninsula land or on southern employment land is—
(a)  3% of the total floor area of the development that is intended to be used for residential purposes, and
(b)  1% of the total floor area of the development that is not intended to be used for residential purposes.
(2B)  The affordable housing levy contribution for development on land at Ultimo-Pyrmont, other than Pyrmont Peninsula land, is—
(a)  0.8% of the total floor area of the development that is intended to be used for residential purposes, and
(b)  1.1% of the total floor area of the development that is not intended to be used for residential purposes.
(2C)  The affordable housing levy contribution for development on land at Central Sydney or on residual land is as follows—
(a)  for development applications lodged before 1 July 2022—
(i)  1.5% of the total floor area of the development that is intended to be used for residential purposes, and
(ii)  0.5% of the total floor area of the development that is not intended to be used for residential purposes,
(b)  for development applications lodged on or after 1 July 2022—
(i)  3% of the total floor area of the development that is intended to be used for residential purposes, and
(ii)  1% of the total floor area of the development that is not intended to be used for residential purposes.
(3)  A condition imposed under this clause must permit a person to satisfy the affordable housing levy contribution—
(a)  by way of a dedication in favour of the Council of land comprising one or more dwellings (each having a total floor area of not less than 35 square metres and not more than 90 square metres) with any remainder being paid as a monetary contribution to the Council, or
(b)  if the person so chooses, by way of a monetary contribution to the Council.
(4)  The rate at which a monetary contribution is to be taken to be equivalent to floor area for the purposes of this clause is to be calculated in accordance with—
(a)  for development on land at Ultimo-Pyrmont other than Pyrmont Peninsula land—the Revised City West Affordable Housing Program published by the Department in June 2010, or
Note—
The Program is made available by the Department on the Department’s website.
(aa)    (Repealed)
(b)  for development on land at Green Square or Central Sydney, or on Pyrmont Peninsula land, southern employment land or residual land—the City of Sydney Affordable Housing Program adopted by the Council on 24 August 2020.
Note—
The Program is made available by the Council on its website (www.cityofsydney.nsw.gov.au).
(4A)  The City of Sydney Affordable Housing Program applies to Pyrmont Peninsula land for the purposes of this clause as if Pyrmont Peninsula land was land at Green Square.
(5)  To avoid doubt—
(a)  it does not matter whether the floor area, to which a condition under this clause relates, was in existence before, or is created after, the commencement of this clause, or whether or not the floor area concerned replaces a previously existing area, and
(b)  the demolition of a building, or a change in the use of land, does not give rise to a claim for a refund of any contribution.
(6)  In this clause—
Pyrmont Peninsula land means land to which clause 6.63, 6.64, 6.65 or 6.66 applies.
residual land means the land identified as “Residual Land” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
total floor area means the total of the areas of each floor of a building within the outer face of the external enclosing walls and including balconies, but excluding the following—
(a)  columns, fins, sun control devices, awnings and other elements, projections or works outside the general lines of the outer face of the external walls,
(b)  that part of a balcony that exceeds the minimum area required by the consent authority in respect of the balcony,
(c)  ancillary car parking permitted by the consent authority and associated internal vehicular and pedestrian access to that car parking,
(d)  space for the loading and unloading of goods,
(e)  the floor area of a building, including balconies, that is—
(i)  on land in Zone E4 General Industrial, or
(ii)  used to provide affordable housing or public housing, or
(iii)  used for the purpose of community facilities.
7.13A   Affordable housing in Business Area
(1)  Despite any other provision of this Plan, development for the purposes of a residential flat building or a mixed use development that contains shop top housing may be carried out with development consent on land identified as “Business Area” on the Locality and Site Identification Map if the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the residential flat building or shop top housing to which the development application relates will be used for the purposes of affordable housing, and
(b)  the affordable housing will be provided by or on behalf of a public authority or social housing provider, and
(c)  the affordable housing will be provided in accordance with the City of Sydney Affordable Housing Program adopted by the Council on 24 August 2020, and
(d)  the development is compatible with the existing uses and approved uses of land in the vicinity of the development having regard to the following matters—
(i)  the impact that the development (including its bulk, scale and traffic generation) is likely to have on the existing uses and approved uses of that land, and
(ii)  the services and infrastructure that are or will be available to meet the demands arising from the development, and
(iii)  the impact that those uses are likely to have on the health, wellbeing and amenity of residents of the development by reason of noise, dust, lighting, truck movements, operating hours or otherwise, and
(e)  no part of the ground floor of the residential flat building or mixed use development that fronts a street will be used for residential purposes, and
(f)  the development is not likely to have an adverse effect on the environment and does not cause any unacceptable environmental risks to the land concerned.
(2)  In this clause—
street includes an area of land that is identified in a development control plan made by the Council as land that is proposed to be used for the purposes of a street.
Note—
Development for the purpose of shop top housing may be carried out with development consent on certain land identified as “Business Area” on the Locality and Site Identification Map, without the shop top housing being used for the purpose of affordable housing, because of clause 1AA of Schedule 1.
7.13B   Additional affordable housing contribution for certain development on Planning Proposal Land
(1)  This clause applies to development on Planning Proposal Land involving one or more of the following—
(a)  the erection of a new building with a gross floor area of more than 200m2,
(b)  alterations to an existing building resulting in the creation of more than 200m2 of gross floor area intended to be used for residential accommodation,
(c)  alterations to an existing building resulting in the creation of more than 60m2 of gross floor area intended to be used for a purpose other than residential accommodation,
(d)  a change of use of an existing building to residential accommodation.
(2)  Subclause (1) applies—
(a)  whether the floor area was in existence before, or is created after, the commencement of this clause, and
(b)  whether or not the floor area replaces an existing area.
(3)  The consent authority may, when granting development consent to development to which this clause applies, impose a condition requiring an affordable housing levy contribution equivalent to the contribution specified for the land in Schedule 6C (the contribution).
(4)  A condition imposed under this clause must permit a person to satisfy the contribution by way of one or both of the following—
(a)  a dedication, in favour of the Council, of land comprising 1 or more dwellings, each having a gross floor area of at least 35m2 but no more than 90m2,
(b)  a monetary contribution paid to the Council.
(5)  A monetary contribution must be calculated in accordance with the City of Sydney Affordable Housing Program adopted by the Council on 24 August 2020.
(6)  The demolition of a building, or a change in the use of land, does not give rise to a claim for a refund of a contribution.
(7)  A word or expression used in Schedule 6C has the same meaning as in clause 7.13.
Division 4 Miscellaneous
7.14   Acid Sulfate Soils
(1)  The objective of this clause is to ensure that development does not disturb, expose or drain acid sulfate soils and cause environmental damage.
(2)  Development consent is required for the carrying out of works described in the Table to this subclause on land shown on the Acid Sulfate Soils Map as being of the class specified for those works.
Class of land
Works
1
Any works.
2
Works below the natural ground surface.
Works by which the watertable is likely to be lowered.
3
Works more than 1 metre below the natural ground surface.
Works by which the watertable is likely to be lowered more than 1 metre below the natural ground surface.
4
Works more than 2 metres below the natural ground surface.
Works by which the watertable is likely to be lowered more than 2 metres below the natural ground surface.
5
Works within 500 metres of adjacent Class 1, 2, 3 or 4 land that is below 5 metres Australian Height Datum and by which the watertable is likely to be lowered below 1 metre Australian Height Datum on adjacent Class 1, 2, 3 or 4 land.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted under this clause for the carrying out of works unless an acid sulfate soils management plan has been prepared for the proposed works in accordance with the Acid Sulfate Soils Manual and has been provided to the consent authority.
(4)  Despite subclause (2), development consent is not required under this clause for the carrying out of works if—
(a)  a preliminary assessment of the proposed works prepared in accordance with the Acid Sulfate Soils Manual indicates that an acid sulfate soils management plan is not required for the works, and
(b)  the preliminary assessment has been provided to the consent authority and the consent authority has confirmed the assessment by notice in writing to the person proposing to carry out the works.
(5)  Despite subclause (2), development consent is not required under this clause for the carrying out of any of the following works by a public authority (including ancillary work such as excavation, construction of access ways or the supply of power)—
(a)  emergency work, being the repair or replacement of the works of the public authority required to be carried out urgently because the works have been damaged, have ceased to function or pose a risk to the environment or to public health and safety,
(b)  routine maintenance work, being the periodic inspection, cleaning, repair or replacement of the works of the public authority (other than work that involves the disturbance of more than 1 tonne of soil),
(c)  minor work, being work that costs less than $20,000 (other than drainage work).
(6)  Despite subclause (2), development consent is not required under this clause to carry out any works if—
(a)  the works involve the disturbance of less than 1 tonne of soil, and
(b)  the works are not likely to lower the watertable.
7.15   (Repealed)
7.16   Airspace operations
(1)  The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to provide for the effective and on-going operation of the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport by ensuring that such operation is not compromised by proposed development that penetrates the Limitation or Operations Surface for that airport,
(b)  to protect the community from undue risk from such operation.
(2)  If a development application is received and the consent authority is satisfied that the proposed development will penetrate the Limitation or Operations Surface, the consent authority must not grant development consent unless it has consulted with the relevant Commonwealth body about the application.
(3)  The consent authority may grant development consent for the development, if the relevant Commonwealth body advises that—
(a)  the development will penetrate the Limitation or Operations Surface but it has no objection to its construction, or
(b)  the development will not penetrate the Limitation or Operations Surface.
(4)  The consent authority must not grant development consent for the development, if the relevant Commonwealth body advises that the development will penetrate the Limitation or Operations Surface and should not be constructed.
(5)  In this clause—
Limitation or Operations Surface means the Obstacle Limitation Surface or the Procedures for Air Navigation Services Operations Surface as shown on the Obstacle Limitation Surface Map or the Procedures for Air Navigation Services Operations Surface Map for the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport.
relevant Commonwealth body means the body that is responsible for development decisions relating to the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport under Commonwealth legislation.
7.17   Development in areas subject to aircraft noise
(1)  The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to prevent certain noise sensitive developments from being located near the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport and its flight paths,
(b)  to assist in minimising the impact of aircraft noise from that airport and its flight paths by requiring appropriate noise attenuation measures in noise sensitive buildings,
(c)  to ensure that land use and development in the vicinity of that airport do not hinder or have any other adverse impacts on the ongoing, safe and efficient operation of that airport.
(2)  This clause applies to development that—
(a)  is on land that—
(i)  is near the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, and
(ii)  is in an ANEF contour of 20 or greater, and
(b)  the consent authority considers is likely to be adversely affected by aircraft noise.
(3)  Before determining a development application for development to which this clause applies, the consent authority—
(a)  must consider whether the development will result in an increase in the number of dwellings or people affected by aircraft noise, and
(b)  must consider the location of the development in relation to the criteria set out in Table 2.1 (Building Site Acceptability Based on ANEF Zones) in AS 2021—2000, and
(c)  must be satisfied the development will meet the indoor design sound levels shown in Table 3.3 (Indoor Design Sound Levels for Determination of Aircraft Noise Reduction) in AS 2021—2000.
(4)  In this clause—
ANEF contour means a noise exposure contour shown as an ANEF contour on the Noise Exposure Forecast Contour Map for the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport prepared by the Department of the Commonwealth responsible for airports.
AS 2021—2000 means AS 2021—2000, Acoustics—Aircraft noise intrusion—Building siting and construction.
7.18   Car parks
Development consent must not be granted to development for the purposes of a car park unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the development will not encourage persons to travel in private vehicles between 7am and 9.30am or between 3.30pm and 7pm on weekdays, and
(b)  there will be restrictions on the hours of opening and the amount of time a vehicle can remain within the car park, and
(c)  the development will not adversely impact on the congestion of roads, in particular the movement of public transport on those roads, and
(d)  if not located in Central Sydney, the development will primarily serve retail premises, information and education facilities, entertainment facilities, recreation facilities (outdoor) or recreation facilities (major) on land shown as category F on the Public Transport Accessibility Level Map, and
(e)  if located in Central Sydney on land on which there is not an existing car park, the development will directly serve nearby retail premises, information and education facilities, entertainment facilities, recreation facilities (outdoor) or recreation facilities (major) that, in the opinion of the consent authority, will not be adequately serviced by public transport or public car parking.
7.19   Demolition must not result in long term adverse visual impact
Development consent must not be granted to development involving the demolition of a building unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  any land affected by the demolition—
(i)  in the case of land to which any provision of Division 5 (Site specific provisions) of Part 6 applies—is subject to a site-specific development control plan, or
(ii)  in any other case—will be comprehensively redeveloped under the development consent (if granted) or under an existing development consent relating to the site, and
(b)  adequate measures will be taken to assist in mitigating any adverse visual impacts that may arise as a result of the demolition with regard to the streetscape and any special character area.
7.20   Development requiring or authorising preparation of a development control plan
(1)  This clause applies to any of the following development—
(a)  development for the purposes of a new building,
(b)  development that increases the gross floor area of an existing building.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development to which this clause applies on the following land unless a development control plan that provides for the matters in subclause (4) has been prepared for the land—
(a)  land in Central Sydney, if the site area for the development is more than 1,500 square metres or if the development will result in a building with a height greater than 55 metres above ground level (existing),
(b)  land (other than land in Central Sydney, land identified as “Enterprise Area” on the Locality and Site Identification Map or land in Zone E4 General Industrial), if the site area for the development is more than 5,000 square metres or if the development will result in a building with a height greater than 25 metres above ground level (existing),
(c)  land identified as “Enterprise Area” on the Locality and Site Identification Map, if the site area for the development is more than 5,000 square metres and the development is primarily for the purposes of commercial premises,
(d)  land identified as “Business Area” on the Locality and Site Identification Map, if the development is for the purposes of a residential flat building or a mixed use development that contains shop top housing (proposed to be used for the purposes of affordable housing in accordance with clause 7.13A) and the consent authority considers that the development may have a significant adverse impact on non-residential uses in, or in the vicinity of, that zone.
(3)  A development control plan is not required to be prepared if the consent authority is satisfied that such a plan would be unreasonable or unnecessary in the circumstances or that the development—
(a)  involves only alterations or additions to an existing building, and
(b)  does not significantly increase the height or gross floor area of the building, and
(c)  does not have significant adverse impacts on adjoining buildings or the public domain, and
(d)  does not significantly alter any aspect of the building when viewed from public places.
(3A)  A development control plan may be prepared for land identified as “Business Area” on the Locality and Site Identification Map that is proposed to be developed for the purposes of a residential flat building or a mixed use development that contains shop top housing (proposed to be used for the purposes of affordable housing in accordance with clause 7.13A), whether or not such a plan is required under this clause to be prepared for the land.
(4)  The development control plan must provide for all of the following—
(a)  requirements as to the form and external appearance of proposed development so as to improve the quality and amenity of the public domain,
(b)  requirements to minimise the detrimental impact of proposed development on view corridors,
(c)  how proposed development addresses the following matters—
(i)  the suitability of the land for development,
(ii)  the existing and proposed uses and use mix,
(iii)  any heritage issues and streetscape constraints,
(iv)  the location of any tower proposed, having regard to the need to achieve an acceptable relationship with other towers (existing or proposed) on the same site or on neighbouring sites in terms of separation, setbacks, amenity and urban form,
(v)  the bulk, massing and modulation of buildings,
(vi)  street frontage heights,
(vii)  environmental impacts, such as sustainable design, overshadowing and solar access, visual and acoustic privacy, noise, wind and reflectivity,
(viii)  the achievement of the principles of ecologically sustainable development,
(ix)  pedestrian, cycle, vehicular and service access and circulation requirements, including the permeability of any pedestrian network,
(x)  the impact on, and any proposed improvements to, the public domain,
(xi)  the impact on any special character area,
(xii)  achieving appropriate interface at ground level between the building and the public domain,
(xiii)  the excellence and integration of landscape design,
(xiv)  the incorporation of high quality public art into the fabric of buildings in the public domain or in other areas to which the public has access.
Note—
Section 83C of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979 provides that if an environmental planning instrument requires the preparation of a development control plan before any particular or kind of development is carried out on any land, that obligation may be satisfied by the making and approval of a staged development application in respect of that land.
7.21   Location of sex services premises
(1)  The objective of this clause is to minimise land use conflicts and adverse amenity impacts relating to sex services premises.
(2)  In deciding whether to grant development consent to development for the purposes of sex services premises, the consent authority must consider whether the operation of the sex services premises is likely to cause a disturbance in the neighbourhood—
(a)  because of its size, location, hours of operation or number of employees, or
(b)  taking into account the cumulative impact of the sex services premises along with other sex services premises operating in the neighbourhood during similar hours.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to development for the purposes of sex services premises that are proposed to be located in a building containing one or more dwellings, unless the sex services premises can only be accessed by a separate street entrance that does not provide access to the rest of the building.
7.22   Use of existing non-residential buildings that were shops or pubs in Zone R1
(1)  The objective of this clause is to provide for the reuse of buildings for non-residential purposes.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development in respect of a relevant existing building for the purpose of food and drink premises or shops unless the consent authority has considered the following—
(a)  the impact of the development on the amenity of the surrounding locality,
(b)  the suitability of the relevant existing building for adaptive reuse,
(c)  the degree of modification of the footprint and facade of the relevant existing building.
(3)  In this clause—
relevant existing building means a building on land in Zone R1 General Residential that—
(a)  was designed and constructed for the purpose of a shop or a pub, and
(b)  was erected before the commencement of this Plan.
7.22A   Use of other existing non-residential buildings in Zone R1
(1)  The objective of this clause is to provide for the reuse of buildings for non-residential purposes.
(2)  Despite any other provision of this Plan, development consent may be granted to development in respect of a relevant existing building for the purpose of business premises, office premises or light industry if the consent authority is satisfied of the following—
(a)  the relevant existing building will be used for a creative purpose that involves media, fine arts and craft, design (fashion, industrial or graphic), film and television, photography or publishing,
(b)  the development will be compatible with, and will not detract from, the amenity of the surrounding locality,
(c)  the relevant existing building is suitable for adaptive reuse,
(d)  no additional floor space will be created,
(e)  any modification of the facade of the relevant existing building will be minimal,
(f)  the proposed hours of operation will not detract from residential amenity.
(3)  In this clause—
relevant existing building means a building on land in Zone R1 General Residential that—
(a)  was designed and constructed for a purpose other than residential accommodation, and
(b)  was erected before the commencement of this Plan.
7.23   Large retail development outside of Green Square Town Centre and other planned centres
(1)  This clause applies to land identified as Restricted Retail Development on the Retail Premises Map.
(2)  The objectives of this clause are—
(a)  to promote the economic strength of Green Square Town Centre and planned local centres by limiting large-scale retail development to those centres, and
(b)  to support the provision of community facilities and infrastructure in Green Square.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to development on land to which this clause applies for the purposes of shops or markets with a gross floor area greater than 1,000 square metres.
7.24   Development near Cross City Tunnel ventilation stack
(1)  This clause applies to land identified on the Locality and Site Identification Map as “Land Affected by Cross City Tunnel Ventilation Stack”.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development on land to which this clause applies unless the consent authority is satisfied that—
(a)  the proposed development will not adversely affect the dispersal of emissions from the Cross City Tunnel ventilation stack, and
(b)  persons using the proposed development will not be unduly affected by those emissions.
7.25   Sustainable transport on southern employment land
(1)  This clause applies to development on southern employment land that involves—
(a)  the erection of a new building, or
(b)  alterations to an existing building that will result in an amount of additional floor space equivalent to at least 20% of the existing floor space, or
(c)  a change of use of a building that will result in an increase in the permissible number of car parking spaces for the use of the building, being an increase of at least 20% or 100 car parking spaces (whichever is the greater).
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development to which this clause applies unless the consent authority is satisfied that the development will promote sustainable transport modes and minimise traffic congestion.
(3)  In considering whether development promotes sustainable transport modes and minimises traffic congestion, the consent authority must have regard to the following matters—
(a)  the extent to which the land on which the development is proposed to be carried out is currently accessible by sustainable transport modes,
(b)  the capacity of the transport network to accommodate the development,
(c)  the extent to which the development will contribute to achieving any mode share targets identified in a development control plan made by the Council in respect of the land,
(d)  the extent to which the development will promote sustainable transport and reduce private vehicle use.
(4)  In this clause—
permissible number of car parking spaces means the maximum number of car parking spaces that may be provided for the use of a building pursuant to Division 1 of Part 7.
sustainable transport modes includes, but is not limited to, walking, cycling, public transport and bus shuttle services.
transport network includes roads, public transport, pedestrian and bicycle paths and any other transport infrastructure that contributes to the accessibility of land.
7.25A   Sustainable development in Central Sydney tower cluster areas
(1)  The objective of this clause is to ensure buildings and building services for new development in tower cluster areas in Central Sydney are designed to be capable of achieving best practice energy performance.
(2)  This clause applies to development in a tower cluster area in Central Sydney for which either or both of the following is sought—
(a)  additional floor space under clause 6.21E(2),
(b)  a building height that exceeds the maximum height for the land on the Height of Buildings Map under clause 6.21E(5).
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to development for the purposes of office premises unless the consent authority is satisfied that appropriate measures will be taken to ensure the development is capable of achieving best practice energy performance in the common areas of the part of the building to be used as office premises.
(4)  In this clause—
best practice energy performance means any of the following performance standards—
(a)  a maximum of 45.0 kWh per year for every square metre of gross floor area,
(b)  a 5.5 star + 25% NABERS energy rating, through a NABERS energy commitment agreement between the applicant and the NABERS National Administrator,
(c)  a Green Star building rating with a “credit achievement” in Credit 22: Energy Use,
(d)  a standard the consent authority is satisfied is equivalent to a standard referred to in paragraphs (a)–(c).
common areas, of the development, means areas other than tenant occupied spaces and include the ground floor, entrances, lobbies, foyers, lifts and heating, ventilation and cooling systems.
Green Star building rating means a certified sustainability rating given by or on behalf of the Green Building Council of Australia.
NABERS energy rating means a rating for the energy efficiency of a building given in accordance with the National Australian Built Environment Rating System.
7.26   Public art
(1)  Development for the purpose of public art is permitted with development consent on land in the following zones—
(a)  Zone SP2 Infrastructure,
(b)  Zone RE1 Public Recreation.
Note—
Development for the purpose of public art is permitted with development consent on land in other zones if the Land Use Table specifies that any development that is not permitted without consent, or prohibited, is permitted with consent (that is, if item 3 of the zone includes “Any other development not specified in item 2 or 4”).
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development for the purpose of public art in any zone in which public art is permitted with development consent unless the consent authority is satisfied that the development—
(a)  will not involve the display of an advertisement, and
(b)  will not increase the gross floor area of any building, and
(c)  will not have a significant adverse impact on any heritage conservation area, heritage item or other object or place of heritage significance, and
(d)  will not have a significant adverse impact on the amenity of the public domain, including by overshadowing, wind or noise impacts, and
(e)  if it is to be carried out on land to which a plan of management (within the meaning of the Local Government Act 1993) applies, will be in accordance with the plan of management.
(3)  In this clause, public art means an artwork located in a public space.
Note—
The installation and display of an outdoor sculpture or other form of freestanding artwork is, in some circumstances, exempt development: see State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008, Part 2, Division 1, Subdivision 39 (Sculptures and artworks).
7.27   Active street frontages
(1)  The objective of this clause is to promote uses that attract pedestrian traffic along certain ground floor street frontages.
(2)  This clause applies to land identified as “Active street frontage” on the Active Street Frontages Map.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to the erection or change of use of a building on land to which this clause applies unless the consent authority is satisfied all premises facing the street on the ground floor will—
(a)  have active street frontages, and
(b)  be used for the purposes of—
(i)  for a building in Waterloo Estate (South)—Area 1—one or more of the following—
(A)  business premises,
(B)  centre-based child care facilities,
(C)  community facilities,
(D)  health services facilities,
(E)  retail premises, or
(ii)  otherwise—either or both of the following—
(A)  business premises,
(B)  retail premises.
(4)  For the purposes of subclause (3), an active street frontage is not required for any part of a building to be used for any of the following—
(a)  entrances and lobbies (including as part of mixed use development),
(b)  access for fire services,
(c)  vehicular access.
7.28   Serviced apartments
(1)  The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to ensure that development for the purpose of serviced apartments provides the same level of amenity as that provided by development for the purpose of residential flat buildings,
(b)  to prevent substandard residential accommodation occurring through the conversion of serviced apartments to residential flat buildings.
(2)  Development consent for development for the purpose of serviced apartments or a change of use of a building from serviced apartments to a residential flat building must not be granted unless the consent authority has considered the following in relation to the development—
(a)  the design quality principles set out in Schedule 1 to State Environmental Planning Policy No 65—Design Quality of Residential Apartment Development,
(b)  the design principles of the Apartment Design Guide (within the meaning of that Policy).
7.29   Waterloo Estate (South)—Area 1
(1)  The objectives of this clause are as follows—
(a)  to ensure development in Waterloo Estate (South)—Area 1 is orderly and achieves a high level of environmental performance,
(b)  to ensure a balanced mix of social and affordable housing and other housing,
(c)  to provide a local centre to service the local community,
(d)  to ensure community facilities are provided to support the growing resident population.
(2)  This clause applies to Waterloo Estate (South)—Area 1.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to development on land to which this clause applies unless the consent authority is satisfied of the following—
(a)  at least 17,000m2 of the gross floor area of all buildings on the land will be used for purposes other than residential accommodation,
(b)  at least 5,000m2 of the gross floor area of all buildings on the land will be used for the purposes of one or more of the following—
(i)  centre-based child care facilities,
(ii)  community facilities,
(iii)  health services facilities,
(c)  at least 26.5% of residential floor space will be used for the purposes of social housing premises,
(d)  at least 7% of residential floor space will be used for the purposes of affordable housing that is owned and managed by a registered community housing provider.
(4)  In calculating gross floor area under subclause (3)(c) and (d), an amount of additional floor space permitted under clause 6.21D(3)(b) must be included.
(5)  Development consent must not be granted to development on land to which this clause applies unless the consent authority has considered the Design Guide—Waterloo Estate (South) published by the Department in November 2022.
(6)  In determining the height of a building on land to which this clause applies, solar panels and associated structures must be excluded if the consent authority is satisfied the solar panels and associated structures will not—
(a)  have a significant adverse visual impact, or
(b)  adversely impact the amenity of neighbouring properties.
(7)  Clause 6.21D(3)(a) does not apply to a building on land to which this clause applies.
(8)  In this clause—
residential floor space means the combined gross floor area of the parts of the buildings on land to which this clause applies that are used for the purposes of residential accommodation.
social housing premises has the same meaning as in the Residential Tenancies Act 2010.
7.30   Waterloo Estate (South)—Area 2
(1)  This clause applies to Waterloo Estate (South)—Area 2.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development on land to which this clause applies unless the consent authority has considered the Design Guide—Waterloo Estate (South) published by the Department in November 2022.
(3)  Clause 6.21D(3)(a) does not apply to a building on land to which this clause applies.
7.31   Use of certain land at 15 O’Riordan Street, Alexandria
(1)  This clause applies to the following land at 15 O’Riordan Street, Alexandria—
(a)  Lot 1, DP 387290,
(b)  Lot 4, DP 1279736,
(c)  Lot 7, DP 818246,
(d)  Lot 38, DP 817136.
(2)  Development consent must not be granted to development for the purposes of depots unless the consent authority is satisfied that vehicular access to and from the depot will not unreasonably impact pedestrian, cyclist or vehicular traffic movements on O’Riordan Street, Alexandria.
7.32   Specialised retail premises and vehicle sales or hire premises in Zone E3
(1)  The objective of this clause is to promote the competitive position and economic strength of the City of Sydney’s enterprise areas by limiting large-scale retail development to defined areas.
(2)  This clause applies to land in Zone E3 Productivity Support, other than—
(a)  certain land at O’Riordan Street, Alexandria, between Collins Street and Gardeners Road, shown edged heavy red and marked “(ii)” on the Locality and Site Identification Map, and
(b)  certain land at South Dowling Street, Moore Park, shown edged heavy red and marked “(v)” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to development for the purposes of specialised retail premises or vehicle sales or hire premises with a gross floor area of more than 1,000m2.
Schedule 1 Additional permitted uses
(Clause 2.5)
1AA   Use of certain land at Birmingham Street and Botany Road, Alexandria
(1)  This clause applies to land at Birmingham Street, Alexandria and Botany Road, Alexandria and Rosebery (between Gardeners Road and Morley Avenue), as shown edged heavy red and marked “(iv)” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
(2)  Development for the purposes of shop top housing and seniors housing is permitted with development consent.
1AB   (Repealed)
1   Use of certain land at The Domain, Sydney
(1)  This clause applies to land in Zone RE1 Public Recreation at The Domain, Sydney, being Part Lot 101, DP 854472, as shown edged heavy red and marked “(i)” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
(2)  Development for any of the following purposes is permitted with development consent—
(a)  car parks,
(b)  food and drink premises,
(c)  information and education facilities,
(d)  passenger transport facilities,
(e)  retail premises.
2   Use of certain land at Millers Point
(1)  This clause applies to land at 83–105 Kent Street, Millers Point, being Lot 101, DP 838849.
(2)  Development for the purposes of tourist and visitor accommodation is permitted with development consent.
3   (Repealed)
4   Use of certain land at 56–60 Pyrmont Bridge Road, Pyrmont
(1)  This clause applies to land at 56–60 Pyrmont Bridge Road, Pyrmont, being Lot 1, DP 74155, Lots 1 and 2, DP 125720, Lot 1, DP 734622, Lot 2, DP 827434, Lot 1, DP 836351 and part of Lot 1, DP 835794, as shown edged heavy red and marked “(iii)” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
(2)  Development for the purposes of charter and tourism boating facilities, jetties, port facilities and water recreation structures is permitted with development consent.
4A   (Repealed)
5   Use of certain land at Erskineville
(1)  This clause applies to the following land at Erskineville—
(a)  57 Ashmore Street, being Lot 23, DP 849857,
(b)  165–175 Mitchell Road, being Lot 2, DP 772101.
(2)  Development for the purposes of depots, hardware and building supplies, light industries, timber yards and warehouse or distribution centres is permitted with development consent.
6   Use of certain land at 120 Victoria Street, Potts Point
(1)  This clause applies to land at 120 Victoria Street, Potts Point, being Lot 120, DP 594467.
(2)  Development for the purposes of hotel or motel accommodation is permitted with development consent.
7   Use of certain land at 83–93 Dalmeny Avenue, Rosebery
(1)  This clause applies to land at 83–93 Dalmeny Avenue, Rosebery, being Lot 110, DP 861950, Lots 1–128, SP 53194, Lots 133–286, SP 53997, Lots 287–469, SP 56729, Lots 470–571, SP 58586, Lots 572–689, SP 61596 and Lots 691–797, SP 62388, and known as “Kimberly Estate”.
(2)  Development for the purposes of business premises is permitted with development consent.
8   (Repealed)
9   Use of certain land at 92–98 Brougham Street, Potts Point
(1)  This clause applies to the following land at 92–98 Brougham Street, Potts Point—
(a)  Lot 1, DP 724376,
(b)  Lot 1, DP 904094,
(c)  SP 17354,
(d)  Lot 100, DP 613011.
(2)  Development for the purposes of hotel or motel accommodation is permitted with development consent.
10   Use of certain land at Central Railway Station, Haymarket
(1)  This clause applies to part of Lot 118, DP 1078271, Central Railway Station, 1 Eddy Avenue, Haymarket, as shown edged heavy red and marked “(vi)” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
(2)  During the prescribed period, development for the purposes of office premises is permitted without development consent if—
(a)  the office premises are located on the first, second and third floors of the existing building on the land, and
(b)  the gross floor area of the part of the building used as office premises is not more than 9,500 square metres.
(3)  In this clause—
prescribed period means the period—
(a)  commencing on the commencement of this clause, and
(b)  ending at the end of 1 July 2025.
(4)  This clause is repealed at the end of 2 July 2025.
11   Use of certain land at 156 Forbes Street, Darlinghurst
(1)  This clause applies to Lot 1, DP 568755, 156 Forbes Street, Darlinghurst.
(2)  Development for one or more of the following purposes is permitted with development consent—
(a)  community facilities,
(b)  entertainment facilities,
(c)  function centres,
(d)  food and drink premises,
(e)  information and education facilities,
(f)  markets,
(g)  office premises,
(h)  recreation areas,
(i)  recreation facilities (indoor),
(j)  recreation facilities (outdoor),
(k)  shops.
(3)  Development consent must not be granted to the development unless the consent authority is satisfied the use of the land will—
(a)  support ongoing education at the National Art School, and
(b)  not adversely impact existing buildings on the land, and
(c)  promote the use of land in the Oxford Street Cultural and Creative Precinct for a cultural or creative purpose.
(4)  In this clause—
cultural or creative purpose has the same meaning as in clause 6.60D.
12   Use of certain land at 104 Erskineville Road, Erskineville
(1)  This clause applies to Lot 1, DP 664780 and Lot 14, DP 663317, 104 Erskineville Road, Erskineville.
(2)  Development for the purposes of entertainment facilities is permitted with development consent.
13   Use of certain land at Alexandria and Rosebery
(1)  This clause applies to certain land at Alexandria and Rosebery identified as “Enterprise Area” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
(2)  Development for the purposes of truck depots is permitted with development consent.
Schedule 2 Exempt development
(Clause 3.1)
Note 1—
State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 specifies exempt development under that Policy. The Policy has State-wide application. This Schedule contains additional exempt development not specified in that Policy.
Note 2—
Exempt development may be carried out without the need for development consent under the Act. Such development is not exempt from any approval, licence, permit or authority that is required under any other Act and adjoining owners’ property rights and the common law still apply.
Display of goods on footpath
(1)  Must be associated with a lawfully established business.
(2)  Must be on the part of the footpath that is adjacent to that business.
(3)  Must be authorised under Part 9, Division 3 of the Roads Act 1993.
(4)  Must be authorised under Part 1 or Part 3 of Chapter 7 of the Local Government Act 1993.
(5)  Does not apply to Central Sydney.
Home occupations (sex services)
Must be carried out in a lawful dwelling or in a building ancillary to a lawful dwelling.
Mobile food vending vehicles (food trucks)
(1)  Must be located on a Council-owned road (excluding any classified road within the meaning of the Roads Act 1993) within lawful car parking spaces.
(2)  Must have obtained an approval under section 68 of the Local Government Act 1993.
Repainting of external surfaces of buildings on land within heritage conservation areas
(1)  Must not involve repainting of—
(a)  a heritage item, or
(b)  any of the following surfaces—
(i)  brick,
(ii)  stone,
(iii)  terracotta,
(iv)  tile.
(2)  Must not disturb any existing paint layer unless it has failed by blistering, chalking, flaking or peeling.
(3)  Must be easily removable without disturbing any existing paint layer or damaging the surface.
(4)  Must employ a paint type with a vapour-permeable finish that does not seal in moisture or cause deterioration of the fabric of the surface.
(5)  Must not result in inscriptions, figures, murals, words, word designs or signage on the repainted surface.
Street art
(1)  Must not project more than 30mm from a wall or other surface.
(2)  Must not constitute signage.
Note—
Signage includes advertisements and advertising structures.
(3)  Must not be located on a heritage item or within a heritage conservation area or a special character area.
(4)  Must not contain material that—
(a)  discriminates against or vilifies any person or group, or
(b)  is offensive or sexually explicit.
(5)  In this clause, street art means art that is painted, marked or otherwise affixed to the outside of a building and that is visible from a public place (within the meaning of the Local Government Act 1993).
Note—
Street art may only be carried out subject to requirements to obtain the approval of the owner of the building on which the street art is located or any statutory authorities (such as Transport for NSW). See also Part 2 of the Graffiti Control Act 2008 for graffiti related offences.
Temporary sign or banner
(1)  Must not be displayed for more than 40 days in any calendar year.
(2)  Must be no more than 3m by 4m.
(3)  Must not display offensive material.
(4)  Must not be on, or attached to, an “A” frame structure.
(5)  Must not be located on an awning.
(6)  Must not project from a wall.
(7)  Must be for the purposes of a community event within the meaning of State Environmental Planning Policy (Temporary Structures) 2007.
Temporary use of council land
Note—
If on community land, the use may need to be approved under Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 6 of the Local Government Act 1993.
(1)  Must be on land owned by, or under the care or control of, the Council.
(2)  Must not be for more than 52 days (whether or not consecutive) in any 12 month period.
Schedule 3 Complying development
(Clause 3.2)
Part 1 Types of development
Note—
State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 specifies complying development and the complying development conditions for that development under that Policy. The Policy has State-wide application. This Schedule contains additional complying development not specified in that Policy.
Part 2 Complying development certificate conditions
Note—
Complying development must comply with the requirements of the Act, the regulations under the Act and this Plan.
General conditions
Any development specified in Part 1 is subject to the same conditions set out in Schedule 6 to State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008.
Schedule 4 Classification and reclassification of public land
(Clause 5.2)
Part 1 Land classified, or reclassified, as operational land—no interests changed
Column 1
Column 2
Locality
Description
Nil
 
Part 2 Land classified, or reclassified, as operational land—interests changed
Column 1
Column 2
Column 3
Locality
Description
Any trusts etc not discharged
1A Newcombe Street, Paddington
Lot 10, DP 606238
Easement for water mains and electricity purposes
Part 3 Land classified, or reclassified, as community land
Column 1
Column 2
Locality
Description
Nil
 
Schedule 5 Environmental heritage
(Clause 5.10)
Part 1 Heritage items
Locality
Item name
Address
Property description
Significance
Item no
Various
Busby’s Bore including tunnels, shafts and wells
 	
Lots 1 and 2, Section 3, DP 4599 (SP 623); Lots D–E, DP 33410; Lot J, DP 33411; Lot 1, DP 51145; Lot 5, DP 59752; Lot 1, DP 59808; Lot 1, DP 70537; Lot 1, DP 75105; Lots 1 and 2, DP 130269; Lot 1, DP 137013; Lot 1, DP 199965; Lot 1, DP 205794; Lot A, DP 377984; Lots A–C, DP 434226; Lots A–C, DP 440596; Lot 1, DP 446553; Lot 1, DP 564681; Lot 1, DP 603938; Lot 1, DP 604127; Lot 1, DP 708719 (SP 22113); Lot 1, DP 742261; Lot 5, DP 745804; Lots 1528 and 1627, DP 752011; Lot 1, DP 789476; Lot 1, DP 797239; Lot 1763, DP 821362; Lot 1, DP 826022; Lot 38, DP 832640 (SP 45205); Lot 2, DP 861843; Lots 101 and 102, DP 883120; Lots B–D and F–H, DP 928904; Lots 51 and 52, DP 1041134; Lot 2, DP 1068011; Lots 143 and 146, DP 1071423; Lot 1, DP 1082647; Lot 1, DP 1111581
State
I1
Alexandria
Terrace house including interior
55 Alexander Street
Lot 10, Section L, DP 975369
Local
I2
Alexandria
Alexandra Canal (between Cooks River and Huntley Street) including interior
Alexandra Canal
Lot 13, DP 1050464
State
I3
Alexandria
Former Walter Barr Pty Ltd factory including interiors
2–6 Birmingham Street
Lots 87–90, DP 19171
Local
I2224
Alexandria
Former Sil-Ora Dental Products factory including interiors
22–30 Birmingham Street
Lots 76–79, DP 19171
Local
I2225
Alexandria
Electricity Substation No 375 including interiors
27 Birmingham Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 456890
Local
I2226
Alexandria
Former HG Whittle & Sons factory including interiors
29–33 Birmingham Street
Lots 46–49, DP 16027; Lot A, DP 338257
Local
I2227
Alexandria
Cricketers Arms Hotel including interior
56–58 Botany Road
Lot 45, DP 865060 (SP 53973)
Local
I4
Alexandria
Former CBC Bank including interior
60 Botany Road
Lot 1, DP 186677
Local
I5
Alexandria
Glenroy Hotel including interior
246–250 Botany Road
Lot 1, DP 84748
Local
I6
Alexandria
Former Coote & Jorgenson Engineers factory including interiors
602–612 Botany Road (and 27–31 Ralph Street)
Lots A and B, DP 361014
Local
I2228
Alexandria
Former warehouse “Boltons Trading Co” (15–25 Birmingham Street) including interior
662–674 Botany Road
Lot 40, DP 1070009 (SP 73014)
Local
I7
Alexandria
Former White Way service station including interiors
684 Botany Road
Lot 15, DP 16027
Local
I2229
Alexandria
Former industrial building group “James Barnes” Buildings including interiors, chimney and silos
41–45 Bourke Road
Lot 1, DP 135916
Local
I8
Alexandria
Former Q Store including interiors
47–49 Bourke Road
Lot 12, DP 856809
Local
I2230
Alexandria
Former Commonwealth Industrial Gases oxygen factory and demonstration block including interiors
138–196 Bourke Road
Lot 10, DP 1179388
Local
I2231
Alexandria
Industrial building “Eclipse House” including interior
8–22 Bowden Street
Lot 3, DP 107936; Lot 1, DP 664697
Local
I9
Alexandria
House “Eveleigh House” including interior
39 Brandling Street
Lot 3, DP 787010
State
I10
Alexandria
Alexandria Park including entrance gates, landscaping and grounds
Buckland Street
Land in MS 246.2030
Local
I11
Alexandria
Terrace group including interiors
2–34 Campbell Road
Lots 1–17, DP 33263
Local
I12
Alexandria
Terrace group including interiors
30–33 Copeland Street
Lots 2–4, DP 549113; Lot 163, DP 1100538
Local
I13
Alexandria
Electricity Substation No 117 including interiors
16 Euston Road
Lot 1, DP 184514
Local
I2232
Alexandria
Western part of former Alexandria Spinning Mills including interiors
58–68 Euston Road
Lot 1, DP 828392
Local
I2233
Alexandria
Former Mayor’s Residence including interior
71 Garden Street
Lot 111, DP 1016045
Local
I14
Alexandria
Alexandria Town Hall including interior
73 Garden Street
Lot 112, DP 1016045
Local
I15
Alexandria
Lord Raglan Hotel including interior
12 Henderson Road
Lot 11, DP 814831
Local
I16
Alexandria
Former “Shea’s Creek Woolsheds” Nos 72, 73 and 74 including interior
6A Huntley Street
Lot 2, DP 1124178
Local
I17
Alexandria
Water Board pump house including interior and substructure
48 Huntley Street
Lot 1, DP 665626; Lot 2, DP 665627
Local
I18
Alexandria
Cottage including interior
54 Jennings Street
Lot 46, Section C, DP 2307
Local
I19
Alexandria
Industrial building “Frank G Spurway” including interior
20–30 Maddox Street
Lot 1, DP 200259; Lots 1 and 2, DP 1037270 (SP 72540)
Local
I20
Alexandria
Eastern part of former Alexandria Spinning Mills including internal structure
40A–42 Maddox Street
Lot 2, DP 828392; Lot 1, DP 301061
Local
I2234
Alexandria
Former Standard Telephones & Cables industrial building including interiors
1–3 Mandible Street
Lot 1, DP 87355
Local
I2235
Alexandria
Warehouse including interior
32–42 McCauley Street
Lot A, DP 420788; Lots 1 and 2, DP 537726
Local
I21
Alexandria
Former industrial building including interior
111–117 McEvoy Street
Lot 120, DP 1048809 (SP 69357)
Local
I22
Alexandria
Former Electricity Substation No 152 including interiors
124 McEvoy Street
Lot 1, DP 85600
Local
I2236
Alexandria
Former NSW Mission Church and Hall including interiors
7–9 Mitchell Road
Lots 28–30, Section A, DP 2307
Local
I23
Alexandria
Terrace house including interiors
11 Mitchell Road
Lot 27, Section A, DP 2307
Local
I24
Alexandria
Terrace group including interiors
79–89 Mitchell Road
Lots 1–6, DP 439703
Local
I25
Alexandria
Terrace group including interiors
91–95 Mitchell Road
Lots 1–3, DP 717307
Local
I26
Alexandria
Former National Motor Springs igloo building including interiors
52–54 O’Riordan Street
Lot 1, DP 33947
Local
I2237
Alexandria
Electricity Substation No 225 including interiors
82 O’Riordan Street
Lot 1, DP 78596
Local
I2238
Alexandria
Former Bedford Brickworks group including chimneys, kilns and grounds
2 Princes Highway
Lot 1, DP 610642
Local
I27
Alexandria
Former Wilson Bros Willow Ware factory including interiors
38 Ralph Street
Lot 121, DP 1019907
Local
I2239
Alexandria
Yiu Ming Temple including building, interior and front court
16–22 Retreat Street
Lot 1, DP 197155
State
I28
Alexandria
Terrace group (17A–29 Retreat Street) including interiors
16–29 Retreat Street
Lot 1, DP 197155
Local
I29
Alexandria
Former Electric Light Substation No 89 including interiors
212–214 Wyndham Street
Lot 1, DP 585736
Local
I2240
Annandale
Federal Park including landscaping
 	
Lots 670 and 671, DP 729294
Local
I30
Annandale
Former commercial building “Melocco Bros” including interior
1 and 1A Booth Street (and 215 Wigram Road)
Lots 101 and 102, DP 1044206 (SP 74200, SP 75241)
Local
I31
Annandale
Sewage Pumping Station No 3 including interiors
1B Booth Street
Lot 3, DP 211161
State (part) and Local (remainder)
I2241
Annandale
Railway viaduct
Chapman Road
Lot 7, DP 1033147; Lot 30, DP 1055559
State
I32
Beaconsfield
Cottage including interiors
21 Queen Street
Lot 1, DP 833178
Local
I36
Beaconsfield
St James Anglican Church including interior
182 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 933489
Local
I37
Camperdown
Orphan Creek Public Reserve
 	
Lots 1–18 and 20–28, DP 87376; Lot 15, DP 270241
Local
I38
Camperdown
Victoria Park, Gardener’s Lodge and its interior, entry gates and piers, park layout, paths and plantings
 	
Lot 1, DP 179964; Lot 552, DP 752049; Lot 7035, DP 1051257; Lot 7046, DP 1051316
Local
I39
Camperdown
Former Alexandra Hospital palm trees
Alexandra Drive
Lot 24, DP 270241
Local
I40
Camperdown
Terrace house
13 Briggs Street
Lot G, DP 206605
Local
I41
Camperdown
Terrace house
15 Briggs Street
Lot H, DP 206605
Local
I42
Camperdown
Terrace group including interiors
17–23 Briggs Street
Lots K–N, DP 206605
Local
I43
Camperdown
Terrace group including interiors
25–35 Briggs Street
Lots A and F, DP 908837; Lots 1–3, DP 574130; Lot 4, DP 112173
Local
I44
Camperdown
Women’s College group, University of Sydney including building interiors and grounds
15 Carillon Avenue
Land in MS 2878.3000; Lot 761, DP 752049
State
I45
Camperdown
St Andrew’s College, University of Sydney including main building and interior, quadrangle and grounds
19 Carillon Avenue
Lot 1, DP 137172
Local
I46
Camperdown
St Andrew’s Greek Orthodox Church including interior
21 Church Street
Lot 10, DP 1029845; Lot 19, DP 1124145
Local
I47
Camperdown
Terrace group “York Terrace” including interiors
32–46 Church Street
Lots 1–6, DP 854861; Lots 1 and 2, DP 512436
Local
I48
Camperdown
Terrace group including interiors
41–43 Church Street
Lot 2, DP 860211; Lot 1, DP 863186
Local
I49
Camperdown
Terrace group including interiors
47–51 Church Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 204622; Lot A, DP 106070
Local
I50
Camperdown
Former corner shop and residence including interior
70 Church Street
Lot 1, DP 742989
Local
I51
Camperdown
St Paul’s College group, University of Sydney buildings and their interiors, quadrangles, oval and scoreboard, cricket pavilion and grounds
City Road
Lot 1966, DP 1117595
Local
I52
Camperdown
Gatekeeper’s Lodge, University of Sydney including interior
City Road
Lot 1966, DP 1117595
Local
I53
Camperdown
Terrace group including interiors
2–14 Fowler Street
Lot 1, DP 135243; Lot 1, DP 745195; Lot 1, DP 797015; Lot 1, DP 135242; Lot 1, DP 780895; Lot 1, DP 995838; Lot 1, DP 738616
Local
I54
Camperdown
Warehouse including interior
65–67 Fowler Street
Lot 50, DP 1101290 (SP 77532)
Local
I55
Camperdown
Terrace group including interiors and front fences and gates
69–87 Fowler Street
Lots 2–4, DP 975361; Lot 1, DP 136432
Local
I56
Camperdown
Terrace group including shop front alterations and interiors
89–91 Fowler Street
Lot 1, DP 745761
Local
I57
Camperdown
Warehouse including interior
9–11 Layton Street
Lot 1, DP 961767
Local
I58
Camperdown
Former Grace Bros Repository including interiors
6–10 Mallett Street
Lot 3, DP 72951
Local
I2242
Camperdown
Former Bonds Industries complex including building interiors, Electricity Substation No 181, Chesty Bond Mural and former commercial building facade (at 97–99 Church Street) for “Bonds Cafeteria”
64–106 Mallett Street
Lot 1, DP 785957
Local
I2243
Camperdown
Semi-detached house group including interiors and front fences
108–110 Mallett Street
Lots 18 and 19, DP 1009529
Local
I61
Camperdown
Terrace group “Emaville” and “Maryville” including interiors, front fences and gates
112–114 Mallett Street
Lots 1 and 2, Section 3, DP 111867
Local
I62
Camperdown
Terrace group including interiors
116–120 Mallett Street
Lots A–C, DP 88016
Local
I63
Camperdown
Terrace group including interiors
122–124 Mallett Street
Lots A and B, DP 107255
Local
I64
Camperdown
Terrace house including interiors
128 Mallett Street
Lot 17, Section 2, DP 975361
Local
I65
Camperdown
Terrace group including interiors
134–142 Mallett Street
Lots 1–5, DP 249069
Local
I66
Camperdown
Royal Prince Alfred Hospital group including buildings and their interiors, trees and grounds
Missenden Road
Lot 101, DP 819559; Lot 1, DP 860610
State
I68
Camperdown
St John’s College, University of Sydney including main building and interior, quadrangle, gate lodge and interior, fence and gate and grounds
8A Missenden Road
Lot 2, DP 1124852
Local
I67
Camperdown
Shop and residence including interiors
49 and 49A Missenden Road
Lot 1, DP 256
Local
I69
Camperdown
Alfred Hotel including interior
51–55 Missenden Road
Lots 1–4, DP 456915
Local
I70
Camperdown
Anderson Stuart Building, University of Sydney including interior
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I89
Camperdown
Badham Building, University of Sydney including interior
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I82
Camperdown
Baxter’s Lodge, University of Sydney including interior and gates
Parramatta Road
Lot 1, DP 89825
Local
I86
Camperdown
Botany Building, University of Sydney including interior
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I80
Camperdown
Edward Ford Building, University of Sydney including interior
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I88
Camperdown
Former CBC Bank, University of Sydney including interior and front forecourt
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I83
Camperdown
Heydon-Laurence Building, University of Sydney including interior
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I75
Camperdown
Holme Building, University of Sydney including interior
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I77
Camperdown
JD Stewart Building, University of Sydney including interior
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I73
Camperdown
John Woolley Building, University of Sydney including interior
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I81
Camperdown
Macleay Museum Building, University of Sydney including interior
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I79
Camperdown
Main Building and Quadrangle group, University of Sydney including interiors
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I84
Camperdown
Old Geology Building, University of Sydney including interior
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I78
Camperdown
Physics Building, University of Sydney including interior
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I87
Camperdown
RD Watt Building, University of Sydney
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I74
Camperdown
Refectory Building, University of Sydney including interior, forecourt and loggia
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I76
Camperdown
Science Road Bridge, University of Sydney including roll of honour and interior
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I85
Camperdown
Site landscaping, University of Sydney perimeter fencing and gates
Parramatta Road
Land in MS 5912.300; Land in MS 635.650
Local
I72
Camperdown
Stone retaining wall, fence and steps
Parramatta Road
 	
Local
I71
Camperdown
Former Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children boundary landscaping
Pyrmont Bridge Road
Lots 16, 17, 23, 26 and 27, DP 270241 (SP 69440, SP 71747)
Local
I91
Camperdown
Former Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children “Venables House” including interior and courtyard
20 Pyrmont Bridge Road
Lot 16, DP 270241 (SP 69440)
Local
I92
Camperdown
Flats “Alexandra Dwellings” including interiors
27–45 Pyrmont Bridge Road
Lot 39, DP 859594
Local
I93
Camperdown
Former Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children Administration Building including interior
30 Pyrmont Bridge Road
Lot 17, DP 270241
Local
I94
Camperdown
Terrace house including interior
12 Sparkes Street
Lot 1, DP 71880
Local
I95
Camperdown
Terrace house including interior
14 Sparkes Street
Lot B, DP 161469
Local
I96
Centennial Park
Semi-detached house group including interiors
19–25 Cook Road
Lots 3–6, DP 225784
Local
I97
Centennial Park
Semi-detached house (35–37 Cook Road) including interiors and front fence
27–37 Cook Road
Land in DP 105628 (Lot 1, SP 16894); Lot 1, DP 130381
Local
I98
Centennial Park
Semi-detached house group including interiors and front fence
45–47 Cook Road
Lots A and B, DP 439642
Local
I99
Centennial Park
House “Sandringham” including interior, front fence and grounds
70A Cook Road
Lot 1002, DP 1013499
Local
I100
Centennial Park
Semi-detached house group including interiors and front fence and gates
97–103 Cook Road
Lot 1, DP 114066; Lots 1–2, DP 114423; Lot 3, DP 660188
Local
I101
Centennial Park
House “Kimeree”, Baha’i National Assembly including interior and grounds
2 Lang Road
Lot 14, Section 5, DP 4599
Local
I102
Centennial Park
House “Bellevue” including interior and grounds
4 Lang Road
Lot 15, Section 5, DP 4599
Local
I103
Centennial Park
House including interior and grounds
8 Lang Road
Lot 17, Section 5, DP 4599
Local
I104
Centennial Park
House “Maybourne” including interior, front fence and grounds
10 Lang Road
Lot 18, Section 5, DP 4599
Local
I105
Centennial Park
House “Walshome” including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
12 Lang Road
Lot 19, Section 5, DP 4599
Local
I106
Centennial Park
House “Biltmore” including interior, front fence and gates
14 Lang Road
Lot 20, Section 5, DP 4599
Local
I107
Centennial Park
House including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
18 Lang Road
Lot 22, Section 5, DP 4599
Local
I108
Centennial Park
House “Wallaroy” including interior, front fence and grounds
20 Lang Road
Lot 23, Section 5, DP 4599
Local
I109
Centennial Park
House “Coowong” including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
22 Lang Road
Lot 24, Section 5, DP 4599
Local
I110
Centennial Park
House “Lactura” including interior and grounds
24 Lang Road
Lot 25, Section 5, DP 4599
Local
I111
Centennial Park
House “Devoncliffe” including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
26 Lang Road
Lot 2, DP 218584
Local
I112
Centennial Park
House “Fongkah” including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
28 Lang Road
Lot 22, Section 4, DP 4599
Local
I113
Centennial Park
House “Maranoa” including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
30 Lang Road
Lot 23, Section 4, DP 4599
Local
I114
Centennial Park
House “Anglesy” including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
34 Lang Road
Lot 25, Section 4, DP 4599
Local
I115
Centennial Park
House “Leppington” including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
42 Lang Road
Lot 29, Section 4, DP 4599
Local
I116
Centennial Park
House “Forster” including interior, rear back garage and interior, front fence and gate and terrazzo path and grounds
44–46 Lang Road
Lots 30 and 31, Section 4, DP 4599
Local
I117
Centennial Park
House “Cooeytong” including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
50 Lang Road
Lot 2, DP 607041
Local
I118
Centennial Park
House including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
52 Lang Road
Lot 1, DP 607041
Local
I119
Centennial Park
House “Llewellyn” including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
58 Lang Road
Lot 37, Section 4, DP 4599
Local
I120
Centennial Park
House “Lugarno” including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
70 Lang Road
Lot 22, Section 3, DP 4599
Local
I121
Centennial Park
House “Livingstone” including interior and grounds
84 Lang Road
Lot 15, Section 3, DP 4599
Local
I122
Centennial Park
House “Rexford” including interior, former stables and interior, inter-war garage and grounds
88 Lang Road
Lot 13, Section 3, DP 4599
Local
I123
Centennial Park
House including interior, single storey rear outbuilding, front fence and gate and grounds
90 Lang Road
Lot 12, Section 3, DP 4599
Local
I124
Centennial Park
House “Kemah” including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
96 Lang Road
Lot 9, Section 3, DP 4599
Local
I125
Centennial Park
House “Tufton Villa” including interior, front fence and gate with central path to verandah and grounds
100 Lang Road
Lot 7, Section 3, DP 4599
Local
I126
Centennial Park
House “Waitui” including interior, front fence and gate, rear outbuilding and grounds
106 Lang Road
Lot 4, Section 3, DP 4599
Local
I127
Centennial Park
House including interior, front fence and grounds
110 Lang Road
Lot 2, Section 3, DP 4599
Local
I128
Centennial Park
House “Babington” including interior and grounds
2 Martin Road
Lots 17 and 18, Section 2, DP 4598
Local
I129
Centennial Park
House “Murrulla” including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
4 Martin Road
Lots 19 and 20, Section 2, DP 4598
Local
I130
Centennial Park
House “Devon” including interior, front fence and grounds
6 Martin Road
Lot 21, Section 2, DP 4598
Local
I131
Centennial Park
House “Chessetwood” including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
8 Martin Road
Lot 22, Section 2, DP 4598
Local
I132
Centennial Park
House “The Gables” including interior and grounds
10A Martin Road
Lot 24, Section 2, DP 4598
Local
I133
Centennial Park
House “Oakland” including interior and grounds
16 Martin Road
Lot 27, Section 2, DP 4598
Local
I135
Centennial Park
House “Highbury” including interior and grounds
20 Martin Road
Lot 29, Section 2, DP 4598
State
I136
Centennial Park
House “Romahapa” including interior and grounds
22–24 Martin Road
Lots 30 and 31, Section 2, DP 4598
Local
I137
Centennial Park
House “Namsnah” including interior and grounds
26 Martin Road
Lot 32, Section 2, DP 4598
Local
I138
Centennial Park
House “St Austelle” including interior and grounds
28 Martin Road
Lot 33, Section 2, DP 4598
Local
I139
Centennial Park
House “Meroo” including interior, front fence and grounds
30 Martin Road
Lot 34, Section 2, DP 4598
Local
I140
Centennial Park
House “Baltard” including interior and grounds
38 Martin Road
Lot 1, DP 523473
Local
I141
Centennial Park
House “Camelot” including interior, front fence and grounds
40 Martin Road
Lot 12, Section 1, DP 4598
Local
I142
Centennial Park
House “Hillcrest” including interior, front fence and grounds
46 Martin Road
Lot 15, Section 1, DP 4598
Local
I143
Centennial Park
House “Warwick” including interior, front fence and latch gate and grounds
48 Martin Road
Lot 16, Section 1, DP 4598
Local
I144
Centennial Park
House “The Crossways” including interior, front fence and grounds
50 Martin Road
Lot 12, DP 777738
Local
I145
Centennial Park
House “Elouera” including interior, front fence and grounds
56 Martin Road
Lot 2, DP 17271
Local
I146
Centennial Park
House “Dorothy Manor” including interior, front fence and grounds
5 Robertson Road
Lot 15, Section 2, DP 4598
Local
I147
Centennial Park
House “Parthenon” including interior and grounds
7 Robertson Road
Lot 14, Section 2, DP 4598
Local
I148
Centennial Park
House “Kismet” including interior, front fence and grounds
9 Robertson Road
Lot 13, Section 2, DP 4598
Local
I149
Centennial Park
House “Windsor” including interior, front fence and grounds
19 Robertson Road
Lot 8, Section 2, DP 4598
Local
I150
Centennial Park
House “Haurolo” including interior and grounds
37 Robertson Road
Lot 8, Section 1, DP 4598
Local
I151
Centennial Park
House “The Bungalow” including interior, front fence and grounds
39 Robertson Road
Lot 7, Section 1, DP 4598
Local
I152
Centennial Park
House “New Court” including interior, front fence and grounds
41 Robertson Road
Lot 6, Section 1, DP 4598
Local
I153
Centennial Park
House including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
43 Robertson Road
Lot 5, Section 1, DP 4598
Local
I154
Centennial Park
House including interior and grounds
45–47 Robertson Road
Lots 6 and 7, DP 17271
Local
I155
Centennial Park
House “Dorchester” including interior, front fence and gate and grounds
49–51 Robertson Road
Lots 4 and 5, DP 17271
Local
I156
Chippendale
Corner shop and terrace group “Centennial Terrace” including interiors
63–67 Abercrombie Street
Lot 1, DP 745310; Lot 100, DP 616551; Lot 1, DP 794639
Local
I157
Chippendale
Retail and residential terrace group including interiors
66–70 Abercrombie Street
Lot 1, DP 920048
Local
I158
Chippendale
Warehouse “Macintosh Tyres & Co” including interior
72–80 Abercrombie Street
Lot 1, DP 740344
Local
I159
Chippendale
Warehouse “JC Goodwin & Co”
79–83 Abercrombie Street
Lot 16, DP 740281
Local
I160
Chippendale
Shannon Hotel (87–89 Abercrombie Street) including interior
87–91 Abercrombie Street
Lot 1, DP 34184; Lot 1, DP 105603; Lot 1, DP 561873 (SP 58556)
Local
I161
Chippendale
Terrace group “Dangar Terrace” including interiors
117–131 Abercrombie Street
Lots 1–8, DP 108427
Local
I162
Chippendale
Residential flat and retail building group “Strickland Building” including interiors
54–62 Balfour Street
Lot 100, DP 857658
Local
I163
Chippendale
Sutherlands Hotel including interior
2–6 Broadway
Lot 1, DP 189855
Local
I164
Chippendale
St Benedict’s Church group including church, convent, hall, presbytery and interiors of each, grounds and fences
104–110 Broadway
Lots 7–9 and 17, Section 3, DP 466; Lots 1 and 2, Section 5, DP 466; Lot 1, DP 456453; Lots 1 and 2, DP 782481; Lot 1, DP 171705; Lot 1, DP 190200; Lot 1, DP 190532; Lot 1, DP 190750
Local
I165
Chippendale
Former Bank, retail and warehouse building “Pioneer House” including interiors
128 Broadway
Lot 1, DP 184686
Local
I166
Chippendale
Former Hotel Broadway including interior
166–170 Broadway
Lot 1, DP 186904
Local
I167
Chippendale
Former Commonwealth Bank including interior
174–178 Broadway
Lot 1, DP 184915
Local
I168
Chippendale
Former English, Scottish and Australian Bank including interior
202–206 Broadway
Lot 1, DP 184375
Local
I169
Chippendale
Former Blackfriars Public School and Headmaster Residence including interiors, fence, grounds and archaeology
4–12 Buckland Street
Lot 1, DP 122324; Lot 1, DP 724081; Lot 9, Section 5, DP 466; Lot 1, Section 4, DP 466
Local
I170
Chippendale
Former warehouse “WA Davidson Clothing Manufacturers” including interior
14–16 Buckland Street
Lots 31–35, Section 2, DP 466
Local
I171
Chippendale
Lansdowne Hotel including interior
2–6 City Road
Lot 1, DP 195311; Lot 1, DP 54735
Local
I172
Chippendale
Remnant wall “Coopers Cottages”
20 City Road
Lot C, DP 108387
Local
I173
Chippendale
Former warehouse “Grace Bros” including interior
22–24 City Road
Lot F, DP 108387; Lot A, DP 161228
Local
I174
Chippendale
Former Imperial Hotel including interior
58 City Road
Lot 1, DP 71314
Local
I175
Chippendale
Terrace group including interiors, front gardens and fences
88–90 City Road
Lot 1, DP 196641; Lot 19, DP 556071
Local
I176
Chippendale
Terrace including interior and front fence
92 City Road
Lot 1, DP 91815
Local
I177
Chippendale
Rose Hotel including interior and courtyard
52–54 Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 79380; Lot 1, DP 65614
Local
I178
Chippendale
Terrace group “Coopers Terrace” including interiors
6–10 Elim Place
Lots 1–3, DP 564775
Local
I179
Chippendale
Railway Square road overbridge
George Street
Lot 2, DP 819366
State
I180
Chippendale
Former warehouse “Canada House” including interior
822 George Street
Lot 2, DP 66316
Local
I181
Chippendale
Former Bank of NSW including interior
824–826 George Street
Lot 1, DP 66316
Local
I182
Chippendale
Cottage including interior
1 Knox Street
Lot 3, DP 60317
Local
I183
Chippendale
Terrace group including interiors and side passage
20–22 Levey Street
Lots A and B, DP 442292
Local
I184
Chippendale
Former hotel and terrace group including interiors
24–32A Levey Street
Lots 4–9, DP 442676
Local
I185
Chippendale
Terrace group including interiors
29–43 Levey Street
Lots 1–8, DP 218757
Local
I186
Chippendale
Former Sydney City Mission Hall including interior
3 Little Queen Street
Lot 5, DP 64469
Local
I187
Chippendale
Warehouse “E G Bishops Pty Ltd” including interior
35–45 Myrtle Street
Lot 1, DP 227125; Lot 12, DP 456872; Lot 13, DP 193234
Local
I188
Chippendale
Corner shop and residence including interiors
42 Myrtle Street
Lot 5, DP 221599
Local
I189
Chippendale
Victoria Park Hotel including interior
47 Myrtle Street
Lot 1, DP 538969
Local
I190
Chippendale
Terrace group including interiors
23–25 Queen Street
Lots 7 and 8, DP 63744
Local
I191
Chippendale
Terrace group including interior (99–105 Regent Street)
27 Queen Street
Lot 1, DP 1102805
Local
I192
Chippendale
Former “John Storey Memorial Dispensary” including interior
36 Regent Street
Lot 1, DP 89847
Local
I193
Chippendale
Former Mortuary Railway Station including interior, grounds, fence and railway platforms
50 Regent Street
Lot 1, DP 523736; Lot 118, DP 1078271
State
I194*
Chippendale
Former Co-Masonic Temple including interior
54 Regent Street
Lot 101, DP 1033339
Local
I195
Chippendale
Terrace group (83–85 Regent Street) including interiors
77–85 Regent Street
Lot 1, DP 58670
Local
I196
Chippendale
Former Crown Hotel including interior
111–113 Regent Street
Lot 1, DP 71326
Local
I197
Chippendale
Cottage including interior
137–139 Regent Street
Lot 1, DP 742484
Local
I198
Chippendale
Former Mercantile Bank Chambers including interior
151 Regent Street
Lot 1, DP 1118645
Local
I199
Chippendale
Terrace group “Rose Terrace” including interiors
1–5 Rose Street
Lots 9–11, Section 10, DP 466
Local
I200
Chippendale
Terrace group including interiors
10–20 Rose Street
Lots 1–6, DP 928975
Local
I201
Chippendale
Terrace house including interior
22 Rose Street
Lot 101, DP 1066910
Local
I202
Chippendale
Duck & Swan Hotel including interior
72–74 Rose Street
Lot 2, DP 217201
Local
I203
Chippendale
Terrace group “Clive Terrace” including interiors
18–48 Shepherd Street
Lots 1–16, DP 223006
Local
I204
Chippendale
Terrace house (21A Shepherd Street) including interior
21–21A Shepherd Street
Lot A, DP 440613
Local
I205
Chippendale
Terrace group including interiors
23–25 Shepherd Street
Lots 6 and 7, Section 10, DP 466
Local
I206
Chippendale
Terrace house including interior
27 Shepherd Street
Lot 5, Section 10, DP 466
Local
I207
Chippendale
Terrace group including interiors
1–5 Smithers Street
Lots 1–3, DP 442676
Local
I208
Chippendale
Terrace group including interiors
2–12 Smithers Street
Lots 11–14, DP 556789; Lots 1 and 2, DP 445303
Local
I209
Chippendale
Terrace group including interiors
13–17 Wellington Street
Lots 3–5, DP 438154
Local
I210
Darlinghurst
Terrace group part of “Barcom Mews” including interiors, front fences and gates
1–3 Barcom Avenue
Lots 16 and 17, DP 233299
Local
I211
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors and front fence
5–9 Barcom Avenue
Lots 18–20, DP 233299
Local
I212
Darlinghurst
Terrace group part of “Barcom Mews” including interiors
11–15 Barcom Avenue
Lots 21–23, DP 233299
Local
I213
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
23–47B Barcom Avenue
Lot 1, DP 204420 (SP 13176); Lot 32, DP 31878 (SP 38559)
Local
I214
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
21–25 Berwick Lane
Lot 1, DP 536550; Lots A and B, DP 107267
Local
I215
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
27–33 Berwick Lane
Lots 1–4, DP 33836
Local
I216
Darlinghurst
Warehouse including interior
15–19 Boundary Street
Lot 2, DP 228412 (SP 61717, SP 63776, SP 64512)
Local
I217
Darlinghurst
Terrace group “Te-Roma Penda House” and “Waratah House” including interiors
164–164C Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 168490; Lot 1, DP 168491; Lot 1, DP 104999
Local
I218
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
176–188 Bourke Street
Lots 1–7, DP 253598
Local
I219
Darlinghurst
Flat building “Aston Hall” including interior
185 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 52850
Local
I220
Darlinghurst
Terrace group “William Terrace” including interiors
219–229 Bourke Street
Lots A–F, DP 447357
Local
I221
Darlinghurst
Terrace group (238–246 Palmer Street) including interiors
281–283 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 1013007 (Lots 1–5 and 19–23, SP 63792)
Local
I222
Darlinghurst
Commercial Building “Kinselas House” including former chapel and interior
383–387 Bourke Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 193949
Local
I223
Darlinghurst
Former Burton Family Hotel including interior
20 Burton Street
Lot 1, DP 711964
Local
I224
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
22 Burton Street
Lot 102, DP 1077350
Local
I225
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including front fence and interior
24 Burton Street
Lot 1, DP 68937
Local
I226
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
26–28 Burton Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 552849
Local
I227
Darlinghurst
Cottage including interior
32 Burton Street
Lot 1, DP 779697
Local
I228
Darlinghurst
Burton Street Tabernacle including interior
39 Burton Street
Lots 1–3, DP 986840; Lot 1, DP 1045646
Local
I229
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
76–88 Burton Street
Lot 4, DP 606509; Lots 2–7, DP 228259
Local
I230
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors and front fence (at 106–108 Burton Street) and semi-detached cottage group including interiors (at 110–112 Burton Street)
106–112 Burton Street
Lot 1, DP 947398; Lot 1, DP 900305; Lot 1, DP 936952; Lot 1, DP 936953
Local
I231
Darlinghurst
Flat building “Hillcrest Flats” including interior
114 Burton Street
Lot A, DP 90907
Local
I232
Darlinghurst
Beare’s Stairs
Caldwell Street
 	
Local
I233
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
20–22 Caldwell Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 507494
Local
I234
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interior
24–26 Caldwell Street
Lots 3 and 4, DP 507494
Local
I235
Darlinghurst
Flat building “Camden Flats” including interior
188–194 Campbell Street
Lot 15, DP 60373 (SP 15947)
Local
I236
Darlinghurst
Christian Israelite Sanctuary including interior
196 Campbell Street
Lot 1, DP 868897
Local
I237
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
3–9 Chapel Street
Lot 1, DP 713463; Lot 7, DP 718275; Lot 1, DP 783779; Lot 1, DP 599438
Local
I238
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
18 Chapel Street
Lot B, DP 913635
Local
I239
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
20 Chapel Street
Lot C, DP 913635
Local
I240
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
5–17 Charlotte Lane
Lots 3 and 4, DP 539697; Lot 1, DP 598920; Lots 2 and 3, DP 447166; Lots 1 and 2, DP 1057262
Local
I241
Darlinghurst
Weatherboard cottage
46 Chisholm Street
Lot 71, DP 602585
Local
I2292
Darlinghurst
Flat building “Granston Hall” including interior
2 Clapton Place
Lot 1, DP 176082 (SP 17549)
Local
I242
Darlinghurst
Flat building group “The Victor” and “The Rex” including interior
4 Clapton Place
Lot 2, DP 176082 (SP 22765)
Local
I243
Darlinghurst
Flat building “Beauradia” including interior
8 Clapton Place
Lot 3, DP 176082 (SP 46678)
Local
I244
Darlinghurst
Flat building “Sorrento” including interior
10 Clapton Place
Lot 1, DP 533264 (SP 3755)
Local
I245
Darlinghurst
Australian Museum including interior
6 College Street
Crown land 143–858, 143A–858 and 145–858
State
I246*
Darlinghurst
Sydney Boys Grammar School including buildings and their interiors, fence to College Street and Frances Street and grounds
10–12 College Street
Lot 1, DP 549658; Lot 12, DP 588102; Lot 1, DP 168643; Lots 2 and 3, DP 191898
Local
I247*
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior and front fence
128 Crown Street
Lot 6, DP 208617
Local
I248
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors and front fences
130–132 Crown Street
Lots 4 and 5, DP 208617
Local
I249
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors and front fences
134–136A Crown Street
Lots 1–3, DP 208617
Local
I250
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors and front fences
155–157 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 797711; Lot 1, DP 71248
Local
I251
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
159 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 784972
Local
I252
Darlinghurst
Terrace house (161 Crown Street) including interior
161–163 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 88187
Local
I253
Darlinghurst
Terrace house (163 Crown Street) including interior
161–163 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 88187
Local
I254
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
165–169 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 57098; Lots 1 and 2, DP 964190
Local
I255
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
171–175 Crown Street
Lots 1–3, DP 226159
Local
I256
Darlinghurst
Terrace group “Sir Hercules Robinson Terrace” including interiors
177–191 Crown Street
Lots 1–8, DP 234092
Local
I257
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
213–225 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 193942; Lot 1, DP 537639; Lots 1–5, DP 32753
Local
I258
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
216–218 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 63020 (SP 16866); Lot B, DP 441934
Local
I259
Darlinghurst
Terrace group (220–224 Crown Street) including interiors
220–228 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 555689; Lot 1, DP 86337 (Lots 3–5, SP 13069)
Local
I260
Darlinghurst
Terrace group (226–228 Crown Street) including interiors
220–228 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 555689; Lot 1, DP 86337 (Lots 1 and 2, SP 13069)
Local
I261
Darlinghurst
Terrace group (1–11 Langley Street) including interiors
220–228 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 555689; Lot 1, DP 86337 (Lots 6–11, SP 13069)
Local
I262
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
230–232 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 776560
Local
I263
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interiors
236 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 612849
Local
I264
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
238 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 70493
Local
I265
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
240–242 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 79909; Lot 1, DP 59185
Local
I266
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
284–288 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 996785; Lot 1, DP 594693; Lot 1, DP 713488
Local
I267
Darlinghurst
Cottage including interior
1 Darley Place
Lot A, DP 443865
Local
I268
Darlinghurst
Semi-detached house group including interiors
2–3 Darley Place
Lot 2, DP 775724
Local
I269
Darlinghurst
Semi-detached house including interior
4 Darley Place
Lot 1, DP 775724
Local
I270
Darlinghurst
Cottage “Ashley Cottage” including interior
5 Darley Place
Lot 1, DP 71424
Local
I271
Darlinghurst
House “Stoneleigh” including interior, front fence and grounds
1A Darley Street
Lot 13, DP 611068
State
I272
Darlinghurst
House “Iona” including interior, fence and grounds
2 Darley Street
Lot 92, DP 1015067
State
I273
Darlinghurst
Flat building “Portree” including interior
2A Darley Street
Lot 2, DP 333687 (SP 14930)
Local
I274
Darlinghurst
Flat building “Ballina Flats” including interior
5 Darley Street
Lots A and B, DP 335778 (SP 7396)
Local
I275
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
9 Darley Street
Lot 1, DP 59925
Local
I276
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
11–15 Darley Street
Lot 1, DP 444764; Lots A and B, DP 34052
Local
I277
Darlinghurst
Darlinghurst Fire Station including interior
100–102 Darlinghurst Road
Lot 1, DP 547455
Local
I278
Darlinghurst
St John’s Church of England Church group including church and interior, rectory and interior, fences and grounds
120 Darlinghurst Road
Lot 2, DP 225418
State
I279
Darlinghurst
NSW Jewish War Memorial and Museum including buildings and interiors, and Menorah in situ concrete sculpture
140–146 Darlinghurst Road
Lot 1, DP 219090
Local
I280
Darlinghurst
Semi-detached house group “The Hopes” and “The Statler” including interiors
251–261 Darlinghurst Road
Lot 1, DP 564255 (SP 18015); Lots 4–6, DP 394 (SP 18016)
Local
I281
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
263 Darlinghurst Road
Lot 7, DP 188908
Local
I282
Darlinghurst
Terrace house “Kenworth” including interior
267 Darlinghurst Road
Lot 8, DP 394
Local
I283
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
269–271 Darlinghurst Road
Lot 1, DP 55049; Lot 1, DP 53948; Lot B, DP 445305
Local
I284
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
273–275 Darlinghurst Road
Lot A, DP 445305; Lot 1, DP 779144
Local
I285
Darlinghurst
Flat building “Tennyson House” including interior
1 Farrell Avenue
Lot A, DP 105882 (SP 16111)
Local
I286
Darlinghurst
Flat building group “Richmond Hall”, “Rosebank Hall” and “Montrose” including interiors
2–12 Farrell Avenue
Lots 5–7, DP 9403 (SP 14919, SP 14917, SP 14918); Lot 1, DP 962118
Local
I287
Darlinghurst
Flat building “Linden” including interior
3 Farrell Avenue
Lot 3, DP 9403 (SP 9563)
Local
I288
Darlinghurst
Flat building “Martin Hall” including interior
3A Farrell Avenue
Lot B, DP 180396 (SP 457)
Local
I289
Darlinghurst
Former Wesleyan School including interior
58A Flinders Street
Lot 1456, DP 593633 (SP 61399)
Local
I290
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors and front fence
82–84 Flinders Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 872483
Local
I291
Darlinghurst
House including interior
86 Flinders Street
Lot 1, DP 72610
Local
I292
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors and front fences
88–98 Flinders Street
Lots 1–6, DP 13353
Local
I293
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors and front fences
100–102 Flinders Street
Lots 7 and 8, DP 13353
Local
I294
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors and front fences and paths
106–114 Flinders Street
Lots A–E, DP 173244
Local
I295
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
116–120 Flinders Street
Lot 1, DP 86987; Lot 1, DP 196761; Lot 1, DP 135319
Local
I296
Darlinghurst
Palace Hotel including interior
122–124 Flinders Street
Lot 1, DP 88544
Local
I297
Darlinghurst
Chard Stairs
Forbes Street
 	
Local
I298
Darlinghurst
Former East Sydney Technical College and Darlinghurst Gaol including buildings and their interiors, perimeter walls and gates and grounds
156 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 568755
Local
I299
Darlinghurst
Former St Peter’s Church of England group including former church, church hall and small store and their interiors, fencing and front entry garden
159–163 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 557311
State
I300
Darlinghurst
Sydney Church of England Girls Grammar School group including Barham, Church Building and Wilkinson House and their interiors and grounds
165–215 Forbes Street
Lot 18, DP 131188; Lots A, B and 3, DP 87906; Lot 1, DP 52892; Lot 1, DP 65883; Lot 8, DP 253598; Lots 9–11, DP 52048; Lots 17 and 18, DP 53158; Lot 24, DP 19237; Lot A, DP 437551; Lot 1, DP 135634
Local
I301
Darlinghurst
Former St Peter’s Rectory including interior
188 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 135635
Local
I302
Darlinghurst
Terrace house “Nelson House” including interior
217 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 586075
Local
I303
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
219 Forbes Street
Lot 2, DP 586075
Local
I304
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
221–227 Forbes Street
Lot 221, DP 1109440; Lots 1 and 2, DP 75666; Lot 1, DP 63784
Local
I305
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
229 Forbes Street
Lot 3, DP 586075
Local
I306
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
231–233 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 781132; Lot 1, DP 745254
Local
I307
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
235 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 996940
Local
I308
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
237–239 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 745514; Lot 1, DP 744534
Local
I309
Darlinghurst
Terrace group “Belgrave Terrace” including interiors
238–252 Forbes Street
Lots 21–27, DP 777608
Local
I310
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
241–243 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 997951; Lot 1, DP 72092
Local
I311
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
245 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 74154
Local
I312
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
247–253 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 742601; Lot 1, DP 53616; Lots 1 and 2, DP 537057
Local
I313
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
257–297 Forbes Street
Lots 1–21, DP 32355
Local
I314
Darlinghurst
“Caritas Cottage” and “Caritas House” including interiors, front fence and grounds
299 Forbes Street
Lot 1612, DP 752011
Local
I315
Darlinghurst
Former Darlinghurst Police Station including interior
301 Forbes Street
Lot 23, DP 1096488
Local
I316
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
8–10 Francis Street
Lots 21 and 22, DP 718033
Local
I317
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior and front fence
12 Francis Street
Lot 123, DP 719929
Local
I318
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
14 Francis Street
Lot 124, DP 719929
Local
I319
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
16–18 Francis Street
Lot 125, DP 719929; Lot 23, DP 789341
Local
I320
Darlinghurst
Former College hotel including interior
17 Francis Street
Lot 1, DP 66611
Local
I321
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
19–21 Francis Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 530521
Local
I322
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
20–22 Francis Street
Lots 21 and 22, DP 789341
Local
I323
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interior
23 Francis Street
Lot 1, DP 711522
Local
I324
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
24 Francis Street
Lot 1, DP 86813
Local
I325
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
25 Francis Street
Lot 1, DP 798178
Local
I326
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
26–26A Francis Street
Lots A and B, DP 440311
Local
I327
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
27–31 Francis Street
Lot 1, DP 194292; Lot 1, DP 137439; Lot 1, DP 996831
Local
I328
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
28 Francis Street
Lot 1, DP 78543
Local
I329
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
30–36 Francis Street
Lot 1, DP 1045054; Lot 1, DP 732969; Lot 64, DP 538103; Lot 1, DP 1063719
Local
I330
Darlinghurst
Former corner shop and residence group including interiors
33–35 Francis Street
Lot 2, DP 505007; Lot 1, DP 997161
Local
I331
Darlinghurst
Former corner shop and residence including interiors
38 Francis Street
Lot 1, DP 603562
Local
I332
Darlinghurst
Former St Joseph’s Kindergarten including interiors
40–50 Francis Street
Lot 2, DP 572819; Lot 1, DP 165391; Lot 1, DP 55857
Local
I512
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
41–49 Francis Street
Lots A–E, DP 33418
Local
I333
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
51 Francis Street
Lot 4, DP 112766
Local
I334
Darlinghurst
Hohnen’s Stairs including sandstone retaining wall to Palmer Street
Kings Lane
 	
Local
I335
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
13–15 Langley Street
Lots B and C, DP 439348
Local
I336
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
6–8 Liverpool Lane
Lots 1 and 2, DP 541688
Local
I337
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
10–12 Liverpool Lane
Lots 1 and 2, DP 538764
Local
I338
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
160–162 Liverpool Street
Lots 3 and 4, DP 1057262
Local
I340
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
164–170 Liverpool Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 539697; Lots 5 and 6, DP 447166
Local
I341
Darlinghurst
Former Hillside Private Hotel including interior
172–174 Liverpool Street
Lots 7 and 8, DP 447166
Local
I342
Darlinghurst
Former corner shop and residence including interiors
176 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 84223
Local
I343
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
178 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 731721
Local
I344
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
180–182 Liverpool Street
Lots 3 and 4, DP 229029
Local
I345
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
184 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 551065
Local
I346
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
186–196 Liverpool Street
Lots 31–34, DP 225291; Lots 11 and 12, DP 590530
Local
I347
Darlinghurst
Former corner shop and residence (200 Liverpool Street) including interiors
200–200A Liverpool Street
Lot 10, DP 611848
Local
I348
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors and front fences
202–218 Liverpool Street
Lots 1–9, DP 440149
Local
I349
Darlinghurst
Former “Winns Ltd Department Store” including interior
223–225 Liverpool Street
Lot 1001, DP 613424 (SP 73797)
Local
I350
Darlinghurst
House group “Claremont Lodge” including interiors
248 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 825432
Local
I351
Darlinghurst
Terrace group and interiors
250–252 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 731219; Lot 1, DP 202883
Local
I352
Darlinghurst
Terrace house and interior
254 Liverpool Street
Lot 2, DP 202883
Local
I353
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
256 Liverpool Street
Lot 256, DP 1109334
Local
I354
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
258 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 69329
Local
I355
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
260 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 67401
Local
I356
Darlinghurst
First Church of Christ Scientist including interior
262 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 174206
Local
I357
Darlinghurst
Former house “Hilton” including interior and front fence
278 Liverpool Street
Lot 12, DP 611068
Local
I358
Darlinghurst
Flat building “Alexandra Flats” including interior and street fencing
280 Liverpool Street
Lot 14, DP 611068 (SP 19355)
Local
I359
Darlinghurst
House “Novar” including interior
298 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 333687
Local
I361
Darlinghurst
House “The Grange” including interior and front fence
300 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 60218 (SP 18155, SP 54916)
Local
I362
Darlinghurst
Corner shop and residence including interiors
302–304 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 741189
Local
I363
Darlinghurst
Terrace group (337 Liverpool Street) including interiors and front fence
337–339 Liverpool Street
Lot A, DP 173152 (SP 17448)
Local
I365
Darlinghurst
Terrace house (339 Liverpool Street) including interior and front fencing
337–339 Liverpool Street
Lot A, DP 173152 (SP 17448)
Local
I366
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
341–345 Liverpool Street
Lots B–D, DP 173152
Local
I367
Darlinghurst
Flat building “Mont Clair” including interior and front fence
347 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 82479
Local
I368
Darlinghurst
Darlinghurst Public School group including buildings and their interior, site landscaping and grounds
350 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 809992
Local
I369
Darlinghurst
Former Advanx Industrial Car Assembly Hall including interior
34–52 McLachlan Avenue
Lots 1, 2 and 15, DP 10832; Lot 1, DP 503527
Local
I371
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
16 Nimrod Street
Lot 62, DP 81
Local
I372
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
18–20 Nimrod Street
Lots 60 and 61, DP 81
Local
I373
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
22 Nimrod Street
Lot A, DP 436299
Local
I374
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
24 Nimrod Street
Lot 103, DP 775653
Local
I375
Darlinghurst
Terrace group (5–11 Norman Street) including interiors and front fencing
5–17 Norman Street
Lot 1, DP 576799
Local
I376
Darlinghurst
Terrace group (13–17 Norman Street) including interiors and grounds and front fencing
5–17 Norman Street
Lot 1, DP 576799
Local
I377
Darlinghurst
Commercial building “SILF Company” including interior
10–20 Oxford Square
Lots 2–5, DP 108126
Local
I378
Darlinghurst
Burdekin Hotel including interior
2–4 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 6064
Local
I379
Darlinghurst
Exchange Hotel including interior
34–36 Oxford Street
Lot 15, DP 6064
Local
I380
Darlinghurst
Commercial building including interior
38–46 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 848592
Local
I381
Darlinghurst
Commercial building including interior
48–50 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 108126
Local
I382
Darlinghurst
Former commercial building “London Chambers” including interior
52–54 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 6520 (SP 22553)
Local
I383
Darlinghurst
Commercial building “GA Zink & Sons” (56 Oxford Street) including interior
56–78 Oxford Street
Lot 2, DP 6520
State
I384
Darlinghurst
Commercial building (58–60 Oxford Street) including interior
56–78 Oxford Street
Lots 3 and 4, DP 6520
Local
I385
Darlinghurst
Commercial building (62–66 Oxford Street) including interior
56–78 Oxford Street
Lots 5–7, DP 6520
Local
I386
Darlinghurst
Commercial building “Daniel’s” (68–70 Oxford Street) including interior
56–78 Oxford Street
Lots 8 and 9, DP 6520
Local
I387
Darlinghurst
Commercial building “Nelson Leong” (72–72A Oxford Street) including interior
56–78 Oxford Street
Lot 10, DP 6520
Local
I388
Darlinghurst
Commercial building (74–78 Oxford Street) including interior
56–78 Oxford Street
Lots 11 and 12, DP 6520
Local
I389
Darlinghurst
Brighton Hotel including interior
75–77 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 59997
Local
I390
Darlinghurst
Former Kelso’s Hotel including interior
80 Oxford Street
Lot 13, DP 6520
Local
I391
Darlinghurst
Former Oxford Street Municipal Chambers including interior
82–106 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 815188
Local
I392
Darlinghurst
Commercial building “Oxford House” including interior
103–105 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 85077
Local
I393
Darlinghurst
Commercial building including interior
107–111 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 1034542 (SP 66143, SP 78085)
Local
I394
Darlinghurst
Former Crecy Hotel including interior
108 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 107574
Local
I395
Darlinghurst
Commercial building (110 Oxford Street) including interior
110–122 Oxford Street
Lot 2, DP 815188
Local
I396
Darlinghurst
Commercial building group (112–122 Oxford Street) including interior
110–122 Oxford Street
Lot 2, DP 815188
Local
I397
Darlinghurst
Former commercial building “Edward Arnold & Co Store” including interior
113–115 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 62497; Lot 13, DP 913672
Local
I398
Darlinghurst
Westpac Bank
117–123 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 186391
Local
I399
Darlinghurst
Former Electrical substation (No. 6) including interior
136 Oxford Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 1008763
State
I400
Darlinghurst
Underground lavatory including interior
136 Oxford Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 1008763
State
I401
Darlinghurst
Commercial building including interior
137–139 Oxford Street
Lot 2, DP 659032; Lot 1, DP 913671; Lot 1, DP 917325
Local
I402
Darlinghurst
Darlinghurst Court House group including interior, fencing and grounds
138 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 809761
State
I403
Darlinghurst
Commercial building including interior
141–143 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 731524; Lot 1, DP 79516
Local
I404
Darlinghurst
Commercial building including interior
151–151A Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 51915
Local
I405
Darlinghurst
Commercial building including interior
153 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 782015
Local
I406
Darlinghurst
Commercial building group including interior
155–157 Oxford Street
Lots C and D, DP 89245
Local
I407
Darlinghurst
Commercial building including interior
159 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 60606
Local
I408
Darlinghurst
Sacred Heart Church group including buildings and their interiors, fencing and grounds
160 Oxford Street
Lot 2, DP 564463
Local
I409
Darlinghurst
Commercial building facade including interior
161 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 80250
Local
I410
Darlinghurst
Commercial building including interior
163–169 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 734544
Local
I411
Darlinghurst
Commercial building “Fraser & Hughes” including interior
171 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 575954
Local
I412
Darlinghurst
Former CBC Bank including interior
173–175 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 199935
Local
I413
Darlinghurst
Commercial building including interior
185 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 205182
Local
I414
Darlinghurst
Court House Hotel including interior
189 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 33381
Local
I415
Darlinghurst
Beauchamp Hotel including interior
265–267 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 604127
Local
I416
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
5 Palmer Lane
Lot 1, DP 135235
Local
I417
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
6–8 Palmer Lane
Lot 10, DP 840175; Lot F, DP 928967
Local
I418
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
10–12 Palmer Lane
Lot E, DP 928967; Lot A, DP 436969
Local
I419
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
14–16 Palmer Lane
Lot 1, DP 770173; Lot 5, DP 238342
Local
I420
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
18 Palmer Lane
Lot 4, DP 238342
Local
I421
Darlinghurst
Terrace group “Baker’s Dozen” including interiors
155A–165B Palmer Street
Lots 3–13, DP 255780; Lot 14, DP 787304
Local
I422
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
169–171 Palmer Street
Lots B and C, DP 431476
Local
I423
Darlinghurst
Former Presbyterian Church group including buildings and their interiors
186–186A Palmer Street
Lot 1, DP 842716
Local
I424
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
188–190 Palmer Street
Lots 10 and 11, DP 834639
Local
I425
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
192–196 Palmer Street
Lot 3, DP 56959; Lots A and B, DP 447254
Local
I426
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
198–200 Palmer Street
Lot 1, DP 135237; Lot 1, DP 135236
Local
I427
Darlinghurst
Terrace group “McBeath Terraces” including interiors
199–211 Palmer Street
Lots A–G, DP 439672
Local
I428
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior and front fence
202 Palmer Street
Lot 1, DP 76617
Local
I429
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
204–206 Palmer Street
Lots 11 and 12, DP 1014172
Local
I430
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
212–220 Palmer Street
Lots 1–5, DP 255326
Local
I431
Darlinghurst
Commercial building including interior
213–217 Palmer Street
Lot 2, DP 1103557
Local
I360
Darlinghurst
Tradesman’s Arms Hotel including interior
234–236 Palmer Street
Lot 1, DP 82439
Local
I432
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
300–302 Palmer Street
Lot 1, DP 72541
Local
I433
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
94 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 996830
Local
I434
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
108 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 770325
Local
I435
Darlinghurst
Former hotel “Watters Gallery” including interior
109 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 621878
Local
I436
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
111–113 Riley Street
Lots 2 and 3, DP 255524
Local
I437
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
112–118 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 58183; Lot 1, DP 782645; Lot 2, DP 447265; Lot 1, DP 773045
Local
I438
Darlinghurst
Former corner shop and terrace group including interiors
115–119 Riley Street
Lot 2, DP 67759; Lot 1, DP 799002
Local
I439
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
120 Riley Street
Lot B, DP 441319
Local
I440
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
122 Riley Street
Lot A, DP 441319
Local
I441
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
124–126 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 77028; Lot 1, DP 996903
Local
I442
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
128–132 Riley Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 536357; Lot 1, DP 784395
Local
I443
Darlinghurst
Commercial building “Oxford Hall” including interior
165–167 Riley Street
Lot 6, DP 108126
Local
I444
Darlinghurst
Cottage including interior
10 Ryder Street
Lot 10, DP 734789
Local
I445
Darlinghurst
Terrace group “Myrtle Terrace” including interiors
16–24 Seale Street
Lots 11–15, DP 262778
Local
I446
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
17–19 Seale Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 229029
Local
I447
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
21–23 Seale Street
Lots 2 and 3, DP 551065
Local
I448
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
23 Stanley Street
Lot 178, DP 538963 (SP 57546)
Local
I449
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
31–39 Stanley Street
Lot 1, DP 194758; Lot 1, DP 73423; Lots 1 and 2, DP 996827
Local
I450
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
45–65 Stanley Street
Lot 1, DP 63120; Lots A and B, DP 106675; Lot 1, DP 67759; Lot 1, DP 68262; Lot 1, DP 77557; Lots 1 and 2, DP 833530; Lot 1, DP 996829; Lots 1 and 2, DP 1064188
Local
I451
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
56–58 Stanley Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 831051
Local
I452
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
58A–60 Stanley Street
Lots 4 and 5, DP 255524
Local
I453
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
62 Stanley Street
Lot 1, DP 996810
Local
I454
Darlinghurst
Lord Roberts Hotel including interior
64 Stanley Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 999738
Local
I455
Darlinghurst
Cottage including interior
66 Stanley Street
Lot A, DP 440934
Local
I456
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
67–69 Stanley Street
Lots A and B, DP 33830
Local
I457
Darlinghurst
Terrace house (71 Stanley Street) including interior
71–73 Stanley Street
Lots C and D, DP 33830
Local
I458
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior, at rear of the property fronting Chapel Street
81 Stanley Street
Lot 1, DP 445244
Local
I459
Darlinghurst
Cottage (131–133 Crown Street) including interior
82–84 Stanley Street
Lot 1, DP 1011041 (SP 67314)
Local
I460
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
83 Stanley Street
Lot 2, DP 229576
Local
I461
Darlinghurst
Cottage including interior
109 Stanley Street
Lot 1, DP 996906
Local
I462
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
75–79 Surrey Street
Lot 47, DP 456129; Lot 46, DP 81; Lots 47 and 48, DP 456128; Lot 1, DP 131453; Lot 1, DP 906236
Local
I463
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
85 Surrey Street
Lots 49–50, DP 81
Local
I464
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
87–99 Surrey Street
Lot 51, DP 81; Lots 1 and 2, DP 730206; Lots 1 and 2, DP 623734; Lots 101 and 102, DP 775652
Local
I465
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
5–7 Taylor Street
Lots 2 and 3, DP 599459
Local
I466
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
9–11 Taylor Street
Lot A, DP 447287; Lot 1, DP 196527
Local
I467
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
15–21 Taylor Street
Lots A–E, DP 108289
Local
I468
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
21A–27 Taylor Street
Lots F–J, DP 108289
Local
I469
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
29–37 Taylor Street
Lot 1, DP 770162; Lots K–N, DP 108289
Local
I470
Darlinghurst
Terrace group and interiors
36–48 Taylor Street
Lots 1–7, DP 222261
Local
I471
Darlinghurst
Cliff face and retaining wall
Thompson Place
 	
Local
I472
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
2–6 Thomson Street
Lot 1, DP 1093056; Lot 1, DP 226812; Lot 1, DP 995581
Local
I473
Darlinghurst
Terrace house “Aberfoyle” including interior
8 Thomson Street
Lot 1, DP 1031222
Local
I474
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors and rear brick fencing
10–14 Thomson Street
Lots 1–3, DP 448108
Local
I475
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
16–18 Thomson Street
Lot 1, DP 795140; Lot 1, DP 781144
Local
I476
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
20 Thomson Street
Lot 1, DP 196026
Local
I477
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
22 Thomson Street
Lot 1, DP 783583
Local
I478
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
24–26 Thomson Street
Lot 1, DP 74216; Lot 26, DP 1109341
Local
I479
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
28–30 Thomson Street
Lot 1, DP 112460; Lot 2, DP 577750
Local
I480
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
32 Thomson Street
Lot 1, DP 537723
Local
I481
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
34–36 Thomson Street
Lot 1, DP 997768; Lot 1, DP 997392
Local
I482
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
38 Thomson Street
Lot 1, DP 712926
Local
I483
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
40 Thomson Street
Lot 1, DP 199676
Local
I484
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
42–86 Thomson Street
Lots 22–44, DP 32355
Local
I485
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
61–67 Thomson Street
Lots 1–4, DP 439559
Local
I486
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
69–73 Thomson Street
Lot 1, DP 233296; Lot 1, DP 996585; Lot 1, DP 735888
Local
I487
Darlinghurst
Green Park including bandstand and interior, memorials and landscaping
Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 668227; Lot 640, DP 752011
Local
I490
Darlinghurst
Cottage including interior
265 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 75646
Local
I488
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
271–273 Victoria Street
Lots 3 and 4, DP 110677
Local
I489
Darlinghurst
Green Park Hotel including interior
360 Victoria Street
Lot 21, DP 867249
Local
I491
Darlinghurst
St Vincent’s Hospital group including buildings and their interiors and fencing to Victoria Street
394–404 Victoria Street
Lot 2, DP 804753
Local
I493
Darlinghurst
Terrace group “Lanes’ Cottages” and interiors
2–14 West Avenue
Lot X, DP 442031; Lots 1–6, DP 773250; Lot 1, DP 1002206
Local
I494
Darlinghurst
Former National School Building including interior
43 William Street
Lot 11, DP 588102; Lot 3, DP 1046458
Local
I495*
Darlinghurst
Museum Hotel including interior
47–49 William Street
Lots 20 and 21, DP 1045919
Local
I496
Darlinghurst
Mixed residential and commercial building “William House” (101–111 William Street) including interior
101–115 William Street
Lot 42, DP 1047474
Local
I497
Darlinghurst
Commercial building “Telopea, Merrool & Baringa” including interior
121–129 William Street
Lot 12, DP 1060203 (SP 73189)
Local
I498
Darlinghurst
Commercial building “Chard’s Building” including interior
171–175 William Street
Lot A, DP 431767
Local
I499
Darlinghurst
Commercial building “Grenville House” including interior
177–185 William Street
Lot 1, DP 1095178 (SP 76869)
Local
I500
Darlinghurst
Flat building “Corinthians” (2 Womerah Avenue) including interior
2–6 Womerah Avenue
Lot 100, DP 731754 (SP 30553)
Local
I501
Darlinghurst
Terrace group part of “Barcom Mews” including interiors and fencing
18A–40 Womerah Avenue
Lots 1–14, DP 233299
Local
I502
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
9 Woods Lane
Lot 1, DP 238393
Local
I503
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
11 Woods Lane
Lot 2, DP 238393
Local
I504
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
13 Woods Lane
Lot 3, DP 238393
Local
I505
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
15 Woods Lane
Lot 4, DP 238393
Local
I506
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
17 Woods Lane
Lot 5, DP 238393
Local
I507
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
19 Woods Lane
Lot 1, DP 67303
Local
I508
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
21–25 Woods Lane
Lot 21, DP 622814; Lot 1, DP 135270; Lot 101, DP 1041761
Local
I509
Darlinghurst
Park Hotel including interior
18–20 Yurong Street
Lot 1, DP 75356; Lot 1, DP 176829
Local
I510
Darlinghurst
Shop and residence group including interiors
31–39 Yurong Street
Lots 11–13, DP 818453; Lots 21 and 22, DP 610333
Local
I511
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
54–56 Yurong Street
Lots 11 and 12, DP 90934; Lot 2, DP 591419
Local
I513
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
57 Yurong Street
Lot 4, DP 447166
Local
I514
Darlinghurst
Terrace house including interior
58 Yurong Street
Lot 1, DP 591419
Local
I515
Darlinghurst
Terrace group including interiors
60–72 Yurong Street
Lot 1, DP 815795; Lots 1–6, DP 250685
Local
I516
Darlington
Terrace group including interiors
254–266 Abercrombie Street
Lots 1–7, DP 31810
Local
I517
Darlington
Former “Galway Castle Hotel” and residence including interior and grounds
306 Abercrombie Street
Lot 1, DP 71017
Local
I518
Darlington
Former warehouse building including interior
331–337 Abercrombie Street
Lot 1, DP 66920; Lot 1, DP 82065
Local
I519
Darlington
Terrace group including interiors
338–348 Abercrombie Street
Lots 1, 2, 5 and 6, DP 248656; Lots 3 and 4, DP 712839
Local
I520
Darlington
Terrace group including interiors
50–52 Calder Road
Lots 19 and 20, DP 716481
Local
I521
Darlington
James Spring drinking fountain and horse trough
96–148 City Road
 	
Local
I522
Darlington
Former NSW Institute for the Deaf, Dumb and Blind Group, University of Sydney including interiors
96–148 City Road
Lot 1, DP 790620
Local
I523
Darlington
Former Darlington Primary School including interior
96–148 City Road
Lot 1, DP 790620
Local
I524
Darlington
Britannia Hotel including interior
103 Cleveland Street
Lot 10, DP 621657
Local
I525
Darlington
Former “Hahn Automotive Services” including interior
117–117A Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 377460; Lot 1, DP 337413
Local
I526
Darlington
Terrace group including interiors
137–143 Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 832274; Lots 11–13, DP 259796
Local
I527
Darlington
Terrace group “Roma” and “Frelin” including interiors
86–87 Darlington Road
Lots 1–4, DP 996663
Local
I528
Darlington
Terrace house including interior
88 Darlington Road
Lot 1, DP 1016390
Local
I529
Darlington
Terrace group including interiors
90–93 Darlington Road
Lots 1 and 2, DP 443003; Lot A, DP 436094
Local
I530
Darlington
Terrace house including interior
94 Darlington Road
Lot 1, DP 69635
Local
I531
Darlington
Terrace house including interior
95 Darlington Road
Lot 9, Section 34, DP 111120
Local
I532
Darlington
Terrace group “Golden Grove Terrace” including interiors
96–103 Darlington Road
Lot 9, DP 1118985; Lot 97, DP 1073645; Lots 1–5, DP 996629; Lot 1, DP 996657
Local
I533
Darlington
Terrace group including interiors
104–123 Darlington Road
Lots 1–12, DP 33326; Lot A, DP 185532; Lot 1, DP 1067807; Lots A and B, DP 436059; Lot 1, DP 185534; Lot 1, DP 1038854
Local
I534
Darlington
Terrace group “University Terrace” including interiors
124–131 Darlington Road
Lots 30–35, Section 34, DP 111120
Local
I535
Darlington
Terrace house and Hall “The Settlement” (17 Edward Street) including interior, external murals and internal murals
17–19 Edward Street
Lots 21–23, DP 179089
Local
I536
Darlington
Former Jones IXL factory garage including interiors
2–10 Golden Grove Street
Lot 20, DP 1196550
Local
I2244
Darlington
Former McMurtrie, Kellermann & Co factory including internal structure
181 Lawson Street
Lot 100, DP 1049303 (SP 69741)
Local
I2245
Darlington
Terrace group including interiors
3–9 Thomas Street
Lots 1–4, DP 106051
Local
I537
Darlington
Industrial building including interior
43–47 Vine Street
Lot 1, DP 112841
Local
I538
Dawes Point
Sydney Harbour Bridge approaches group including pylons, pedestrian stairs and access roads
Bradfield Highway (and 36–62 Trinity Avenue)
Lot 1, DP 124243
State
I539*
Dawes Point
Terrace group “Milton Terrace” including interiors and front fencing
1–19 Lower Fort Street
Lots 82–91, DP 832148
State
I541
Dawes Point
Harbour View Hotel including interior
18 Lower Fort Street
Lot 30, DP 788671
State
I542
Dawes Point
Terrace group including interiors
20–22 Lower Fort Street
Lots 37 and 38, DP 811936
State
I543
Dawes Point
Terrace group “Linsley Terrace” including interiors
21–23 Lower Fort Street
Lots 80 and 81, DP 832148
State
I544
Dawes Point
House (24–26 Lower Fort Street) including interior
24–42 Lower Fort Street
Lot 77, DP 816308
State
I545
Dawes Point
Terrace house (28 Lower Fort Street) including interior
24–42 Lower Fort Street
Lot 77, DP 816308
State
I546
Dawes Point
Terrace group (30–42 Lower Fort Street) including interiors
24–42 Lower Fort Street
Lot 77, DP 816308
State
I547
Dawes Point
Flat building (2–4B Trinity Avenue) including interior
24–42 Lower Fort Street
Lot 77, DP 816308
State
I548
Dawes Point
House “Darling House” (8–12 Trinity Avenue) including interior
24–42 Lower Fort Street
Lot 78, DP 816308
State
I549
Dawes Point
Terrace group (14–22 Trinity Avenue) including interiors
24–42 Lower Fort Street
Lot 79, DP 816308
State
I550
Dawes Point
Terrace group “Linsley Terrace” including interiors
25–33 Lower Fort Street
Lots 47–59, DP 826364
State
I551
Dawes Point
Terrace house “Linsley Terrace” including interior
35 Lower Fort Street
Lot 46, DP 826364
State
I552
Dawes Point
House “Dawesleigh” including interior
37 Lower Fort Street
Lot 25, DP 773846
State
I553
Dawes Point
Terrace house “Millers Point House” including interior
39–41 Lower Fort Street
Lot 24, DP 773846
State
I554
Dawes Point
House “Clydebank” including interior, front fence, gates and coach house
43 Lower Fort Street
Lot 23, DP 773846
State
I555
Dawes Point
Terrace group “Palermo Terrace” including interiors
47–53 Lower Fort Street
Lot 20, DP 773845
State
I556
Dawes Point
Terrace group “Garrison Terrace” including interiors and grounds
50–56 Lower Fort Street
Lots 1–4, DP 595488
State
I557
Dawes Point
House “Wyong House” including interiors and front fence
55 Lower Fort Street
Lot 21, DP 773845
State
I558
Dawes Point
Terrace group including interiors
57–61 Lower Fort Street
Lots 70–72, DP 835201
State
I559
Dawes Point
Former Millers Point Drill Hall including interior
58 Lower Fort Street
Lot 3, DP 90921 (SP 53918)
State
I560
Dawes Point
Holy Trinity Anglican Church and Church Hall including interiors, grounds and fencing
60–62 Lower Fort Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 1035618
State
I561
Dawes Point
Terrace group “Vermont Terrace” including interiors
63–65 Lower Fort Street
Lots 68 and 69, DP 835795
State
I562
Dawes Point
Terrace group “Eagleton Terrace” including interiors
67–73 Lower Fort Street
Lots 64–67, DP 835795
State
I563
Dawes Point
Shop and residence including interiors
75–77 Lower Fort Street
Lot 61, DP 1062077
State
I564
Dawes Point
Former “The Young Princess Hotel” including interior
79 Lower Fort Street
Lot 60, DP 1062077
State
I565
Dawes Point
Terrace house (82 Windmill Street) including interior
82–86 Windmill Street
Lot 98, DP 1064647
State
I566
Dawes Point
Terrace house (84 Windmill Street) including interior
82–86 Windmill Street
Lot 98, DP 1064647
State
I567
Dawes Point
Terrace group (86–88 Windmill Street) including interiors
82–88 Windmill Street
Lots 98 and 99, DP 1064647
State
I568
Dawes Point
Terrace house including interior
90 Windmill Street
Lot 1, DP 1007570
State
1569
Dawes Point
Terrace house
92 Windmill Street
Lot 2, DP 1007570
State
1570
Elizabeth Bay
House including interior
6–8 Barncleuth Square
Lot 20, DP 831462; Lot 1, DP 619795
Local
I571
Elizabeth Bay
House “Ramona” including interior and grounds
18–18A Billyard Avenue
Lot 1, DP 123549
State
I572
Elizabeth Bay
Former Boomerang boat house, including interior and ship rails
34A Billyard Avenue
Lot 200, DP 613290
Local
I573
Elizabeth Bay
House “Berthong” including interior, garage and grounds
36 Billyard Avenue
Lot 201, DP 613290 (SP 15023)
Local
I574
Elizabeth Bay
House “Boomerang” including interior and garden
42 Billyard Avenue
Lot 1, DP 77439; Lot 1, DP 597121
State
I575
Elizabeth Bay
Flat building “Birtley Towers” including interior
8 Birtley Place
Lot 1, DP 66995
Local
I576
Elizabeth Bay
Former Gazebo Hotel including driveway, porte cochere and entry steps
2 Elizabeth Bay Road
Lot 20, DP 1076282 (SP 73943, SP 75363, SP 78891)
Local
I577
Elizabeth Bay
Flat building “Scotforth” including interior
43–47A Elizabeth Bay Road
Lot B, DP 182279
Local
I578
Elizabeth Bay
Flat building “Blair” including interior
74 Elizabeth Bay Road
DP 87622 (SP 22908)
Local
I579
Elizabeth Bay
House “Keadue” including interior and front fencing
84 Elizabeth Bay Road
Lot 2, DP 501576
Local
I580
Elizabeth Bay
Semi-detached house group “Laureville” and “Oakburn” including interiors
86–88 Elizabeth Bay Road
Lot 1, DP 79243; Lot 1, DP 137180
Local
I581
Elizabeth Bay
House “Kincoppal” including interior and grounds
93 Elizabeth Bay Road
Lot 10, DP 614780 (SP 16857); Lot 11, DP 614780
Local
I582
Elizabeth Bay
House “Tresco” including interior, outbuilding, summer house, boat house, boat harbour, trees, retaining walls and grounds
97 Elizabeth Bay Road
Lot 52, DP 75888
State
I583
Elizabeth Bay
House “Ashton” including interior and grounds
102 Elizabeth Bay Road
Lot B, DP 390549
State
I584
Elizabeth Bay
Flat building “Kingsclere” including interior
1 Greenknowe Avenue
Lot 1, DP 849736 (SP 49923)
Local
I585
Elizabeth Bay
Former flat building “Texas” including interior
3–5 Greenknowe Avenue
Lot 3, DP 430849; Lot A, DP 430588 (SP 20695)
Local
I586
Elizabeth Bay
Former “Orchard Shed”
4 Ithaca Road
Lot 1, DP 183687 (SP 13189)
Local
I587
Elizabeth Bay
Flat building including interior
5 Ithaca Road
Lot 2, DP 82884 (SP 13206)
Local
I588
Elizabeth Bay
Flat building “Alabama” including interior
7 Ithaca Road
Lot 3, DP 77129 (SP 13191)
Local
I589
Elizabeth Bay
Electrical substation
10 Ithaca Road
Lot 1, DP 78782
Local
I590
Elizabeth Bay
El Alamein Fountain
Macleay Street
Lot 1, DP 447466
State
1593A
Elizabeth Bay
Flat building “Macleay Regis” including interior
10–12 Macleay Street
Lots 4 and 5, DP 83221
Local
I591
Elizabeth Bay
House and flat building group “Manar” including buildings and their interiors, front fence and grounds
40A–42 Macleay Street
Lot 1, DP 85886; Lots 12 and 13, DP 15713 (SP 13576, SP 17654, SP 43157, SP 68587)
Local
I592
Elizabeth Bay
Fitzroy Gardens including landscaping
64–68 Macleay Street
Lots 1–10, DP 456564; Lot 1, DP 447466; Lot 1, DP 129261
Local
I593
Elizabeth Bay
House and grounds “Elizabeth Bay House” including interior and grounds
7–9 Onslow Avenue
Lots 4, 5 and 16, DP 15713; Lot 1, DP 1080048
State
I594
Elizabeth Bay
Flat building “Meudon” including interior
13 Onslow Avenue
Lot 1, DP 135503; Lot 1, DP 534707
Local
I595
Elizabeth Bay
Grotto site of Elizabeth Bay House
14–16 Onslow Avenue
Lot 2, DP 33039 (SP 6376, SP 31668)
State
I596
Elizabeth Bay
Cliff face behind Elizabeth Bay House
Onslow Place
 	
Local
I597
Elizabeth Bay
Terrace group “Brent Terrace” including interiors, front fencing and entry stairs
13A–27 Roslyn Gardens
Lot B, DP 443241; Lots 2–8, DP 11550
Local
I598
Elizabeth Bay
St Luke’s Hospital group including buildings and their interiors, sandstone gate, pillars and grounds
16–20 Roslyn Street
Lot 7, DP 54177; Lot 19, DP 2355; Lot 6, DP 53381; Lots 1 and 2, DP 78037; Lot 1, DP 63122; Lot 4, DP 52193; Lot 1, DP 996707; Lot 3, DP 217311
Local
I599
Elizabeth Bay
Flat building “Marlborough Hall” including interior
4 Ward Avenue
Lot 10, DP 604081 (SP 14373)
Local
I600
Erskineville
Former corner shop and residence including interiors
43 Albert Street
Lot 7, DP 928908
Local
I601
Erskineville
Terrace house including interior and grounds
76 Albert Street
Lot 1, DP 794103
Local
I602
Erskineville
Electrical substation
1A Ashmore Street
Lot 1, DP 535528
Local
I603
Erskineville
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
1–10 Bridge Street
Lots 1–5 and 7–10, DP 436838; Lot 23, DP 55629
Local
I604
Erskineville
Terrace house including interior
76–78 Burren Street
Lot 1, DP 772913; Lot 1, DP 772914
Local
I605
Erskineville
Former Cosmopolitan Hotel including interior
11 Charles Street
Lot 1, DP 86714
Local
I606
Erskineville
Terrace group including interiors
14–18 Clara Street
Lots A–C, DP 928972
Local
I607
Erskineville
Former Bakewell Brothers southeast warehouse including interiors
7–19 Coulson Street
Lots C–E, DP 22910
Local
I2246
Erskineville
Imperial Hotel including interior
35–37 Erskineville Road
Lot 1, DP 866872
Local
I608
Erskineville
Holy Trinity Church group including buildings and their interiors and fence to Richford Street
55 Erskineville Road
Lot 11, DP 802832
Local
I609
Erskineville
Erskineville Hotel including interior
102 Erskineville Road
Lot 1, DP 725122
Local
I610
Erskineville
Erskineville Town Hall including interior and front forecourt
104 Erskineville Road
Lot 1, DP 664780; Lot 14, DP 663317
Local
I611
Erskineville
House including interior
134 George Street
Lot 13, DP 772824
Local
I612
Erskineville
Commercial building including interior
590–594 King Street
Lots A–C, DP 33468
Local
I613
Erskineville
Former St Peter’s Theatre facade
672 King Street
Lots 14–16, Section 2, DP 1169
Local
I614
Erskineville
Terrace house including interior and front fence
2 Malcolm Street
Lot 51, DP 1024890
Local
I615
Erskineville
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
6–18 Malcolm Street
Lots A–G, DP 33446
Local
I616
Erskineville
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
41–45 Malcolm Street
Lots 1–3, DP 217793
Local
I617
Erskineville
Terrace house including interiors and front fencing
50 Malcolm Street
Lot 1, DP 742007
Local
I618
Erskineville
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
78–92 Prospect Street
Lots 1–8, DP 258353
Local
I619
Erskineville
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
91–105 Railway Parade
Lot 1, DP 779215; Lot 1, DP 780519; Lot 1, DP 743671; Lot 1, DP 780066; Lot 1, DP 780064; Lot 1, DP 780065; Lot 1, DP 1120971; Lot 1, DP 712378
Local
I620
Erskineville
Former factory chimney stack
127 Railway Parade
Lot 40, DP 1041975 (SP 68110)
Local
I2247
Erskineville
Terrace house “Hillsborough Terrace” including interior
166A Rochford Street
Lot 2, DP 866822
Local
I621
Erskineville
Former MacDonaldtown Post Office including interior
193 Rochford Street
Lot 1, DP 904200
Local
I622
Erskineville
Cottage group “Henry Knight Cottages” including interiors
195–199 Rochford Street
Lot 1, DP 807153
Local
I623
Erskineville
Erskineville Railway Station including buildings and their interiors
Swanson Street
Lot 1, DP 1003674
Local
I625
Erskineville
Rose of Australia Hotel including interior
1–5 Swanson Street
Lot 10, DP 868252
Local
I624
Erskineville
Erskineville Public School including buildings and their interiors, trees and grounds
13 Swanson Street
Lots A–D, DP 436247; Lots 14 and 15, DP 184720; Lots 1 and 2, DP 779946
Local
I626
Erskineville
St Mary’s Church group including buildings and their interiors and fencing
21–23 Swanson Street
Lots 33–40, Section E, DP 3546; Lot 32, DP 71223
Local
I627
Erskineville
Terrace house including interior and front fence
36 Swanson Street
Lot 1, DP 772916
Local
I628
Erskineville
Terrace group including interiors
1–19 Victoria Street
Lots 1–3 and 5–10, DP 913628; Lot 300, DP 1095104
Local
I629
Erskineville
Former Cleveland Shoe Company factory including interiors
18–20 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 302612
Local
I2248
Eveleigh
Alexandria Hotel including interiors
35 Henderson Road
Lot A, DP 82630
Local
I2223
Forest Lodge
Johnstons Creek including canal and bridge
 	
Lot 7015, DP 1060623; Lot 7036, DP 93168; Lot 3, DP 211162, Channel in MS 3560 Sy
Local
I630
Forest Lodge
Street trees
Arundel Street
 	
Local
I631
Forest Lodge
Forest Lodge Public School including buildings and interiors, fencing and grounds
231–233 Bridge Road
Lots 2–6, DP 1334; Lots 1–3 and 6–11, DP 324
Local
I632
Forest Lodge
Former house “Briarbank” including interior
231–233 Bridge Road
Lots 1, 7 and 8, DP 974980
Local
I633
Forest Lodge
Terrace group “Magnolia Terrace” including interiors and front fencing
272–280 Bridge Road
Lot 1, DP 1081573 (SP 75476)
Local
I634
Forest Lodge
Bridge Hotel and terrace group including interiors
282–284 Bridge Road
Lot 8, DP 558795; Lot 9, DP 2875
Local
I635
Forest Lodge
Terrace group “Cliff Terrace” including interiors, front fencing and retaining wall
2–8 Cliff Terrace
Lots A–G, DP 108146
Local
I636
Forest Lodge
House including interior and front fence
75 Hereford Street
Lot 11, DP 1023076
Local
I637
Forest Lodge
House including interior
115 Hereford Street
Lots 6 and 7, DP 57
Local
I638
Forest Lodge
House including interior
117 Hereford Street
Lot 9, DP 57
Local
I639
Forest Lodge
House “Penharwood” including interior and front fence
148 Hereford Street
Lot A, DP 164078
Local
I640
Forest Lodge
Former Rozelle Tramway Depot including interior, forecourt, water tank, tramway and fencing adjacent to Johnson Creek
10 Maxwell Road
Lots 1 and 2, DP 749029; Lot 711, DP 47216
Local
I641
Forest Lodge
MWS&DB aqueduct
Minogue Crescent
Aqueduct in MS 741 Sy
Local
I642
Forest Lodge
Bowstring Bridge
Minogue Crescent
Bridge in MS 3560 Sy
Local
I643
Forest Lodge
Warehouse including interior
1–3 Ross Street
Lots 14A, 15A and 16–17, DP 447083
Local
I644
Forest Lodge
Electricity Substation No 267 including interiors
19 Ross Street
Lot 1, DP 319713
Local
I2249
Forest Lodge
Former Rehoboth Primitive Methodist Church and Hall including interior
189A and 189C St Johns Road
Lot 1, DP 513825; Lot 1, DP 904566
Local
I645
Forest Lodge
House including interior
242 St Johns Road
Lot 2, DP 610087
Local
I646
Glebe
Blackwattle Bay Park including landscaping
 	
Lot 4, DP 811442; Lot 4, DP 260204; Lots 45–47, DP 100; Lot 2, DP 597314; Lot 1, DP 711483
Local
I649
Glebe
Jubilee Park and Oval including cricket pavilion, oval with picket fence and landscaping
 	
Lots 1–6, DP 120209; Lot 668, DP 729291; Lot 7040, DP 93653; Lot 673, DP 729296
Local
I648
Glebe
Pope Paul VI Reserve including trees
 	
Lot 672, DP 729295
Local
I647
Glebe
Street trees
Arcadia Road
 	
Local
I650
Glebe
House “Oudenard” including interior and front fence
7 Arcadia Road
Lot 20, DP 667419
Local
I651
Glebe
Street trees
Avenue Road
 	
Local
I652
Glebe
St Scholastica’s College including buildings and their interiors, fencing and grounds
2 Avenue Road
Lot 2, DP 579086; Lot 1, DP 251823
Local
I653
Glebe
House “Wych Wood” (4 Avenue Road) including interior
2 Avenue Road
Lot 2, DP 579086
Local
I654
Glebe
Australian Youth Hotel including hotel, terraces and former stables and their interiors
63–67 Bay Street
Lot 2, DP 79875; Lot 4, DP 81606
Local
I655
Glebe
House “Montana” including interior and front fence and entry path
36 Boyce Street
Lot 1, DP 1040095
Local
I656
Glebe
Kauri Foreshore Hotel including interior
2 Bridge Road
Lots 1 and 2, DP 84825
Local
I657
Glebe
Warehouse “Greens Woolstore” including interior
22 Bridge Road
Lot 1, DP 70848; Lot 1, DP 430390; Lot 1, DP 569129; Lot 520, DP 752049
Local
I658
Glebe
Public Housing development including interior
82–96 Bridge Road
Lots 1, 4–6 and 8–10, Section 8, DP 6; Lots A and B, DP 34006; Lots A and B, DP 106661; Lot 1, DP 723227
Local
I659
Glebe
House “The Hermitage” and stables including grounds and interiors of house and stables
154 Bridge Road
Lot 1, DP 54451; Lot 2, DP 319718
Local
I660
Glebe
Former church “The Abbey” including interior and grounds
156–158 Bridge Road
Lot 2, DP 1157302
Local
1661A
Glebe
House “Reussdale”, including interior and grounds
160 Bridge Road
Lot 1, DP 1157302
State
I661
Glebe
House including interior
175 Bridge Road
Lot B, DP 375339
Local
I662
Glebe
House group “Killara”, “Morocco”, “Hillston” and “Strathmore” including interiors, former stables at No. 229 and front fencing
223A–229 Bridge Road
Lots 1–4, DP 441521; Lots 1 and 2, DP 943737
Local
I663
Glebe
Former commercial building “Grace Bros, Model & Moxham Store” including interior
213 Broadway
Lot 1, DP 1105351
Local
I664
Glebe
Former International Harvester Company of America Warehouse and Showroom
255 Broadway
Lot 1 DP 930503
Local
I664A
Glebe
University Hall including interior
281–285 Broadway
Lot 36, DP 245403 (SP 48928)
State
I665
Glebe
Housing development including interiors
4–24 Broughton Street
Lot 20, DP 1096949
Local
I666
Glebe
House group (99–101 Cowper Street) including interiors
4–24 Broughton Street
Lot 20, DP 1096949
Local
I667
Glebe
Two mature Moreton Bay fig trees
Catherine Street, corner Mount Vernon Street
Lot 1, DP 556562
Local
I668
Glebe
Avenue of fig trees, adjacent to tram sheds
Chapman Road
 	
Local
I669
Glebe
Street trees
Cowper Street
 	
Local
I670
Glebe
Friend in Hand Hotel including interior
58 Cowper Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 1041856
Local
I671
Glebe
Shop and residence including interiors
60–62 Cowper Street
Lots 201 and 202, DP 604006
Local
I672
Glebe
House “Lyndhurst” including interior, summer house and grounds
57–65 Darghan Street
Lot 1, DP 1067750
State
I673
Glebe
Housing development including interiors
50–70A Darling Street
Lots A and B, DP 440542; Lots 1–6, DP 32839; Lots A–D, DP 445908
Local
I674
Glebe
Housing development including interiors
53–77 Darling Street
Lots 12 and 13, DP 1095300; Lots 8–11, Section 5, DP 111119; Lots 2–7, DP 1095459; Lot 1, DP 1043027
Local
I675
Glebe
Cardigan Street Sandstone pavement, kerb and retaining wall
77B Darling Street
Lot 35, DP 733601
Local
I676
Glebe
Street trees
Derby Place
 	
Local
I677
Glebe
Street trees
Derwent Street
 	
Local
I678
Glebe
Glebe Public School and Anzac Memorial including interior and grounds
9–11 Derwent Street
Lot 3, DP 830644
Local
I679
Glebe
Sze Yup Chinese Temple including buildings and their interiors, boundary fence and grounds
2 Edward Street
Lot 1, DP 34634; Lot 3, DP 60442; Lot 22, DP 71147; Lot 1, DP 996302
State
I680
Glebe
House “Rothwell Lodge” including interior
24 Ferry Road
Lot 1, DP 440735
State
I681
Glebe
House “Mareton” including interior and fence
61 Ferry Road
Lot 322, DP 747528
Local
I682
Glebe
Glebe former incinerator and interpreted sheds
Forsyth Street
Lot 291, DP 752049; Lot 106, DP 1076596
Local
I683
Glebe
Minogue Reserve
2–6 Franklyn Street
Lot 1, DP 799746
Local
I684
Glebe
Foley Park including wireless house and interior, sandstone walls, trees and landscaping
Glebe Point Road
Lot 665, DP 729285; Lot 521, DP 752049
Local
I725
Glebe
Glebe War Memorial including fencing, central path and steps and lamps
Glebe Point Road
Lot 665, DP 729285
Local
I724
Glebe
Commemorative fountain “Jubilee Fountain”
Glebe Point Road, corner Broadway
 	
Local
I776
Glebe
Former “Australian Gaslight Co Showroom” including interior
13A Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 67180
Local
I685
Glebe
House “Montrose” including interior, remnant stables wall and front garden
20 Glebe Point Road
Lot 31, DP 245403
Local
I686
Glebe
House “Ardyl” including interior
22 Glebe Point Road
Lot 30, DP 245403
Local
I687
Glebe
House including interior and front fence
24 Glebe Point Road
Lot 29, DP 245403
Local
I688
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors
27–29 Glebe Point Road
Lots 1 and 2, DP 258271
Local
I689
Glebe
Commercial building including interior
33 Glebe Point Road
Lot 3, DP 65493
Local
I690
Glebe
Terrace house “Derby House” including interior
36 Glebe Point Road
Lot 21, DP 245403
Local
I691
Glebe
Former Glebe Hotel including interior
37 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 86155 (SP 48184)
Local
I692
Glebe
Shop and residence including interiors
43–45 Glebe Point Road
Lots 6 and 7, DP 245404
Local
I693
Glebe
Shop and residence including interiors
49 Glebe Point Road
Lot 4, DP 245404
Local
I694
Glebe
Shop and residence including interiors
51 Glebe Point Road
Lot 3, DP 245404
Local
I695
Glebe
Shop and residence (53 Glebe Point Road) including interiors
53–55 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 622635
Local
I696
Glebe
Former bakery “Raiths” including interior
62 Glebe Point Road
Lot 10, DP 245402
Local
I697
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors
65–71 Glebe Point Road
Lots 3–6, DP 246633
Local
I698
Glebe
Shop and residence including interiors
72 Glebe Point Road
Lot 7, DP 245402
Local
I699
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors
76–82 Glebe Point Road
Lot 5, DP 245402
Local
I701
Glebe
Cottage “Multiflora” including interior and front garden
77 Glebe Point Road
Lot 7, DP 246633
Local
I702
Glebe
Cottage “Bouquet de Flora” including interior and front garden
79 Glebe Point Road
Lot 8, DP 246633
Local
I703
Glebe
Commercial building including interior
84 Glebe Point Road
Lot 4, DP 245402
Local
I704
Glebe
Shop and residence group including interiors
85–93 Glebe Point Road
Lot 9, DP 246633; Lot 1, DP 742161; Lot 1, DP 780872; Lot 1, DP 794843; Lot 4, DP 1110222
Local
I705
Glebe
Terrace house “Brewongle” including interior
88 Glebe Point Road
Lot 2, DP 245402
Local
I706
Glebe
Former Currency Lass Hotel including interior
90 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 245402
Local
I707
Glebe
Former Waratah Hotel including interior
92 Glebe Point Road
Lot 20, DP 245405
Local
I708
Glebe
Shop and residence including interiors
94 Glebe Point Road
Lot 19, DP 245405
Local
I709
Glebe
Shop and residence group including interiors
95–99 Glebe Point Road
Lot 10, DP 246633; Lot 1, DP 1007904
Local
I710
Glebe
House “D’eresby” including interior and front fence
100 Glebe Point Road
Lot 17, DP 245405
Local
I711
Glebe
Shop and residence group including interiors
101–103 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 998257; Lot 2, DP 712140
Local
I712
Glebe
Commercial building including interior
113 Glebe Point Road
Lot 13, DP 246633
Local
I713
Glebe
Commercial building “Fascination House” including interior
115 Glebe Point Road
Lots 1–2, DP 246373
Local
I714
Glebe
House “Dalston House” including interior and front fence
118 Glebe Point Road
Lot 10, DP 245405
Local
I715
Glebe
Shop and residence
119 Glebe Point Road
Lot 3, DP 246373
Local
I716
Glebe
House group “City View Cottages” including interiors and front gardens
120–126 Glebe Point Road
Lots 6–9, DP 244843
Local
I717
Glebe
Shop and residence including interiors
121 Glebe Point Road
Lot 5, DP 246373
Local
I718
Glebe
Shop and residence (123 Glebe Point Road) including interiors
123–125 Glebe Point Road
Lot 6, DP 246373
Local
I719
Glebe
House “Calmar” including interior
128 Glebe Point Road
Lot 5, DP 244843
Local
I720
Glebe
House “Leamington House” including interior
130 Glebe Point Road
Lot 4, DP 244843
Local
I721
Glebe
House
134 Glebe Point Road
Lot 2, DP 244843
Local
I722
Glebe
St John’s Bishopsthorpe Church including interior, boundary wall, lych gates and grounds
138A Glebe Point Road
Lot 2, DP 209059
Local
I723
Glebe
Commercial building including interior
142 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 258310
Local
I726
Glebe
Shop and residence “Swiss Cottages” including interiors
144 Glebe Point Road
Lot 2, DP 258310
Local
I727
Glebe
Cottage group including interiors
150–158 Glebe Point Road
Lots 2, 3 and 10, DP 237125; Lots 101 and 102, DP 736874
Local
I728
Glebe
Former Hand & Heart Hotel including interior
151 Glebe Point Road
Lot 14, DP 246373
Local
I729
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors
153–159 Glebe Point Road
Lots 12–15, DP 243679
Local
I730
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors
161–181 Glebe Point Road
Lots 1–11, DP 243679
Local
I731
Glebe
Former Valhalla Cinemas and shops including interiors
166 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 772169
Local
I732
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
168–174 Glebe Point Road
Lots 1–4, DP 216168
Local
I733
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
176–182 Glebe Point Road
Lots 1–4, DP 441484
Local
I734
Glebe
Glebe Post Office including interior
181A Glebe Point Road
Lot 420, DP 554762
Local
I735
Glebe
Commercial building including interior
183–185 Glebe Point Road
Lots A and B, DP 443292
Local
I736
Glebe
Former house “St Helen’s” including interior
184 Glebe Point Road
Lot 102, DP 852944
Local
I737
Glebe
Former house “Ben Ledi”
186–194 Glebe Point Road
Lot 101, DP 852944
Local
I738
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors, front fencing and front gardens
198–214 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 997743; Lot 1, DP 1002631; Lot 1, DP 770030; Lot 1, DP 986636; Lots A and B, DP 447333; Lots 1–3, DP 875826
Local
I739
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
207–209 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 85050; Lot 1, DP 516274
Local
I740
Glebe
House group “Doctor’s Houses” including interiors, front fencing and front gardens
216–224 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 207798; Lot 1, DP 714727; Lot 1, DP 69921; Lot 1, DP 69922; Lot 1, DP 624282
Local
I741
Glebe
Ancient Briton Hotel including interior
225 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 71322
Local
I742
Glebe
House group “Edith Villas” including interiors and front fencing
226–228 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 736391; Lot 1, DP 742499
Local
I743
Glebe
House “Paxton House” including interior and front fence
232 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 540914
Local
I744
Glebe
Flat building group “Mayfair Flats” including interior and front fence
232A Glebe Point Road
Land in, DP 87699 (SP 21403, SP 69212)
Local
I745
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors
232B–232D Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 798986; Lot 1, DP 986450; Lot 1, DP 616323
Local
I746
Glebe
House “Engadine Court” including interior
234 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 67169
Local
I747
Glebe
House “Lasswade” including interior, front fence and front garden
240 Glebe Point Road
Lot 138, DP 557789
Local
I748
Glebe
House “Canonbury” including interior, front fence and front garden
242 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 63814
Local
I749
Glebe
House “Hartford” including interior, front fence and front garden
244 Glebe Point Road
Lot 43, DP 456835; Lots 40–42, DP 975580
Local
I750
Glebe
Semi-detached house group including interiors and fencing
246–260 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 105186; Lot 1, DP 935647; Lots 1–6, DP 201742
Local
I751
Glebe
Terrace house including interior
255 Glebe Point Road
Lot B, DP 440705
Local
I752
Glebe
Terrace group “Palmerston Terrace” including interiors, front fences and gardens
257–287 Glebe Point Road
Lots 1–16, DP 3720
Local
I753
Glebe
House “Monteith” including interior, front fence and front garden
266 Glebe Point Road
Lot B, DP 409432
State
I754
Glebe
House “Tricketts” including interior, front fence and front garden
270 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 837942
Local
I755
Glebe
House “Craiglaw” including interior, front fence and front garden
272 Glebe Point Road
Lot 111, DP 594890
Local
I756
Glebe
Terrace house “L’Aiglon” including interior and front fence
278 Glebe Point Road
Lot 11, Section A, DP 4444
Local
I757
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
280–286 Glebe Point Road
Lots A–D, DP 100197
Local
I758
Glebe
House “Lymington” including interior and front fence
288 Glebe Point Road
Lot 8, Section A, DP 4444
Local
I759
Glebe
House group including interiors and front fencing
290–312 Glebe Point Road
Lot 4, DP 4444; Lot 7, Section A, DP 10871; Lots 61 and 62, DP 233217; Lot 5, DP 667466; Lots A–C, DP 434023; Lots 1–5, Section A, DP 10871
Local
I760
Glebe
Shops and residences including interiors
321–327 Glebe Point Road
Lots 5–8, DP 240505
Local
I761
Glebe
Toxteth Hotel including interior
345 Glebe Point Road
Lot A, DP 104592; Lot B, DP 331839
Local
I762
Glebe
House “Bidura” including interiors, former ball room and front garden
357 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 64069
Local
I763
Glebe
House group “Glebe Villa” and “Carlyle” including interiors and front fencing
359–361 Glebe Point Road
Lots 1 and 2, DP 797754; Lot 7, DP 1110167
Local
I764
Glebe
Shop and residence group including interiors
363–373 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 1016626; Lots 1 and 2, DP 320647; Lot 1, DP 77920; Lot 1, DP 78290 (SP 16110)
Local
I765
Glebe
Shop and residence group including interiors
375–381 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 712842; Lot 1, DP 184185; Lots 1 and 2, DP 449170; Lot 1, DP 314744
Local
I766
Glebe
House group including interiors and front fencing
385–389 Glebe Point Road
Lots 1 and 2, DP 207953; Lot 1, DP 946398
Local
I767
Glebe
House group “Ilfracombe” and “Penzance” including interiors and front fencing
397–399 Glebe Point Road
Lot 1, DP 939937; Lot 1, DP 305727; Lot 4, DP 3577
Local
I768
Glebe
House “Dunskey” including interior and front fence
401 Glebe Point Road
Lot 2, DP 305727
Local
I769
Glebe
House including interior and front fence
403 Glebe Point Road
Lot 7, DP 3577
Local
I770
Glebe
House including interior and front fence
405 Glebe Point Road
Lot 8, DP 3577
Local
I771
Glebe
Terrace group “Brucedale” and “Douglasdale” including interiors and front fencing
425–427 Glebe Point Road
Lots 3 and 4, DP 60171
Local
I772
Glebe
Former industrial building “Sterling Pharmaceutical Co” including interior, former tram shelter and front fence
431 Glebe Point Road
Lot 2, DP 181698
Local
I773
Glebe
Terrace house “Gaza House” including interior and front fence
433 Glebe Point Road
Lot 7, DP 226144 (SP 17375)
Local
I774
Glebe
Terrace group “Alma”, “Boro”, “Cama”, “Divo”, “Edna” and “Fava” including interiors and front fencing
435–445 Glebe Point Road
Lots 1–6, DP 226144
Local
I775
Glebe
House including interior
11 Glebe Street
Lot 8, DP 980532
Local
I777
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors
21–23 Glebe Street
Lot 1, DP 197250; Lot 1, DP 194800
Local
I778
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors
27–29 Glebe Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 505984
Local
I779
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
39–41 Glebe Street
Lots 181 and 182, DP 546968
Local
I780
Glebe
Shop and residence “Fernville” including interiors
43 Glebe Street
Lot 19, DP 1042621
Local
I781
Glebe
Former house “Rosebank” and additions including interior and grounds
2A Hereford Street
Lot 10, DP 1116805 (SP 80558)
Local
I782
Glebe
House “Kinvarra” including interior
45 Hereford Street
Lot 2, DP 747841
Local
I783
Glebe
House “Hereford House” including interior, front fence and front garden
53 Hereford Street
Lot 2, DP 1018012
State
I784
Glebe
House “Kerribree”, including interior, front fence and front garden
55 Hereford Street
Lot 3, DP 1018012
Local
I785
Glebe
Stride’s Yard crane
Leichhardt Street
Lot 4, DP 811442
Local
I793
Glebe
House “Margaretta Cottage” including rear outbuilding and interior
6 Leichhardt Street
Lot A, DP 157177
Local
I786
Glebe
House “Bayview” including rear outbuilding and sandstone wall
8 Leichhardt Street
Lot B, DP 157177
Local
I787
Glebe
House including interior and front fence
17–19 Leichhardt Street
Lot A, DP 901377; Lot 1, DP 630553
Local
I788
Glebe
House “Florence Villa” including interior
49 Leichhardt Street
Lot 1, DP 811442
Local
I789
Glebe
House “Drayton Lodge” including interior and front fence
51–51B Leichhardt Street
Lot 2, DP 811442
Local
I790
Glebe
House “The Retreat” including interior
53 Leichhardt Street
Lot 3, DP 811442
Local
I791
Glebe
House “Bellevue” including interior
55 Leichhardt Street
Lots 45–47, DP 100
State
I792
Glebe
House “Tranby” including interior and front fence
13 Mansfield Street
Lot 1, DP 85944
State
I794
Glebe
House “Emslee” including interior and front fence
27 Mansfield Street
Lot 27, DP 1109972
Local
I795
Glebe
Former Glebe Fire Station including interiors
113 Mitchell Street
Lot 4, DP 246373
Local
I2250
Glebe
Street trees
Mount Vernon Street
 	
Local
I796
Glebe
House including interior and front fencing
14 Oxley Street
Lot 10, DP 100
Local
I797
Glebe
House “Eurimbla House” including interior
16 Oxley Street
Lot 1, DP 904531
Local
I798
Glebe
Terrace group including interiors
46–48 Queen Street
Lots A and B, DP 106016
Local
I799
Glebe
Railway viaduct
Railway Street
Lot 8, DP 1033151
State
I800
Glebe
Horse trough
St Johns Road
 	
Local
I805
Glebe
Glebe Police Station including interior
67A St Johns Road
Lots A and B, DP 445225; Lot 1, DP 596858
Local
I801
Glebe
Glebe Courthouse and cottage group including interiors
67B St Johns Road
Lot 1, DP 199092
Local
I802
Glebe
Retirement Home “St John’s Village” including interiors, central courtyard and grounds
75 St Johns Road
Lot 1, DP 209059
Local
I803
Glebe
Glebe Fire Station including interior
75A St Johns Road
Lot 1, DP 806028
Local
I804
Glebe
St John’s Parish Hall including interior
132 St Johns Road
Lot 1, DP 584236
Local
I806
Glebe
Glebe Town Hall including interior, fence and grounds
160 St Johns Road
Lots 1 and 2, DP 799738
Local
I807
Glebe
Nag’s Head Hotel and terrace group including interiors
162–170 St Johns Road
Lot 1, DP 115909; Lots 2–5, DP 18741
Local
I808
Glebe
Shop and residence group (204–206 St Johns Road) including interiors
198–206 St Johns Road
Lot 1, DP 792115
Local
I809
Glebe
Street trees
Toxteth Road
 	
Local
I810
Glebe
Semi-detached house group “Ambleside” and “Wycombe” including interiors, front fencing and front paths
2–4 Toxteth Road
Lots 1 and 2, DP 564957
Local
I811
Glebe
House “Toxteth Lodge” including interior
9 Toxteth Road
Lot 1, DP 917067
Local
I812
Glebe
Former Methodist Church and Hall including interiors and front fencing
19–19A Toxteth Road
Lots 101 and 102, DP 1115520
Local
I813
Glebe
House “The Scheibner Centre” including interior
40 Toxteth Road
Lot 10, DP 878355
Local
I814
Glebe
Allan truss bridge, former Federal Road Bridge
Unnamed lane
 	
Local
I815
Glebe
Street trees
Wentworth Park Road
 	
Local
I816
Glebe
Commercial building “Brelco”
48–64 Wentworth Park Road
Lot 1, DP 84507
Local
I817
Glebe
Street trees
Westmoreland Street
 	
Local
I818
Glebe
House “Aysleigh House” including interior and front fence
74 Westmoreland Street
Lot 1, DP 629500
Local
I819
Glebe
Kirsova Playground including fig tree
1C Wigram Lane
Lot 1, DP 859319
Local
I820
Glebe
Terrace group “Minerva Terrace” including interiors
11A–17 Wigram Road
Lots 1–3, DP 589106
Local
I821
Glebe
St James Catholic Church group including buildings and their interiors, fencing and grounds
2 Woolley Street
Lot 1, DP 87113
Local
I822
Glebe
MWS&DB sewer vent stack
12C York Street
Lot 1, DP 744924
Local
I823
Haymarket
Belmore Park grounds, landscaping and bandstand
 	
Lot 2, DP 868829
Local
I825
Haymarket
Central Railway Station group including buildings, station yard, viaducts and building interiors
 	
Lots 1–3, DP 5771; Lots 1–63, DP 227840; Lots 1 and 2, DP 267889; Lot 12, DP 868831; Lot 11, DP 868834; Lot 32, DP 877478; Lots 12–15 and 18, DP 1062447; Lots 116–118, DP 1078271
State
I824*
Haymarket
Capitol Theatre including interior
3–21 Campbell Street
Lot 20, DP 1014952
State
I826*
Haymarket
Terrace group including interiors
12–20 Campbell Street
Lot 2, DP 613678; Lot 12, DP 606211; Lot 1, DP 180017; Lots 1 and 2, DP 33579
Local
I827*
Haymarket
Former Kwong War Chong & Co building, including interiors and contents of 84 Dixon Street
82–84 Dixon Street
Lot 1, DP 66034
Local
I2293*
Haymarket
Former Bourke Hotel including interior
611–613 George Street
Lot 1, DP 59441; Lot 2, DP 60370
Local
I828*
Haymarket
Central Baptist Church including interior
619–625 George Street
Lot 3, DP 83835
Local
I829*
Haymarket
Commercial building “Jarvis Centre” including interior
627–627A George Street
Lot 1, DP 58558
Local
I830*
Haymarket
Former Haymarket Post Office, Sussex Arcade including interior
631–635 George Street
Lot 1, DP 108370
State
I831*
Haymarket
Former King George Hotel, Sussex Arcade including interior
631–635 George Street
Lot 1, DP 108370
State
I832*
Haymarket
St Peter Julian’s Catholic Church and Monastery buildings, including the following—
(a)  facade walls and fixtures,
(b)  interiors of the church, ground floor, and first floor,
(c)  artworks.
637–645 George Street
Lot 1, DP 84699; Lot B, DP 108370; Lots 1–2, DP 1138453
Local
I2281*
Haymarket
National Australia Bank
661–663 George Street
Lot A, DP 71942
Local
I833*
Haymarket
Westpac Bank including interior
671–675 George Street
Lot 1, DP 187561
Local
I834*
Haymarket
Bank of China including interior
681 George Street
Lot 1, DP 923946
Local
I835*
Haymarket
Commercial building “Kiss’s Building” including interior
698–704 George Street
Lot 7024, DP 131932; Lot A, DP 191855
Local
I836*
Haymarket
Mountbatten Hotel including interior
701–705 George Street
Lot 1, DP 73797; Lot 1, DP 548858
Local
I837*
Haymarket
Great Southern Hotel including interior
715–723 George Street
Lot 100, DP 877942 (SP 64887)
Local
I838*
Haymarket
Palace Hotel complex pubs, shops and interiors
730–742 George Street
Lot 10, DP 835699; Lot 1, DP 855261 (SP 54084)
Local
I839*
Haymarket
Capitol Square (Parker Street)
730–742 George Street
Lot 10, DP 835699; Lot 1, DP 855261 (SP 54084)
Local
I840
Haymarket
Former “Haymarket Chambers” including interior
744–744B George Street
Lot 1, DP 1002966
Local
I841*
Haymarket
Building facades and external walls former “English’s Chambers”
750–750A George Street
Lot 14, DP 76639
Local
I842
Haymarket
Former commercial building “Sutton Forest Meat” including interior
761–763 George Street
Lot 1, DP 1031645
Local
I843*
Haymarket
Commercial building group including interiors
767–791 George Street
Lot 4, DP 502999; Lot 1, DP 80995; Lot 1, DP 80996; Lot 1, DP 80977; Lot 1, DP 80997; Lot 1, DP 657428; Lots 1–3, DP 502999; Lot 207, DP 1059613
Local
I844*
Haymarket
“GIO Building” including interior
770–772 George Street
Lots 1–4, DP 192296; Lots 1 and 2, DP 976000
Local
I845*
Haymarket
Commercial building “Station House” including interior
790–798 George Street
Lot 1, DP 230233
Local
I846*
Haymarket
Former commercial building “Orchard’s Chambers” including interior
793–795 George Street
Lot 1, DP 652668
Local
I847*
Haymarket
Former Lottery Office including interior
814 George Street
Lots 1–5, DP 77617
Local
I848*
Haymarket
Christ Church St Laurence group (church, former school and rectory including interiors)
814A George Street (and 505 Pitt Street)
Lots A and B, DP 87889
State
I849*
Haymarket
Marcus Clark Building, Sydney Technical College (Building W) including interior
827–837 George Street
Lot 1, DP 864499
Local
I850*
Haymarket
Former Salvation Army Citadel including interior
27–33 Goulburn Street
Lot 1, DP 63017
Local
I851*
Haymarket
Former John Bridge Woolstore facades
68 Harbour Street
Lot 10, DP 818716
State
I852
Haymarket
Covent Garden Hotel including interior
102–108 Hay Street
Lot 3, DP 591463
Local
I853*
Haymarket
“Corporation Building” including interior
181–187 Hay Street
Lot 2, DP 1002966
State
I854*
Haymarket
Former Parcels Post Office including retaining wall, early lamp post and building interior
2 Lee Street
Lot 30, DP 877478
Local
I855*
Haymarket
Former Sydney Tourist Hotel facade
398–408 Pitt Street
Lot 100, DP 833649 (SP 44910, SP 62316)
Local
I856
Haymarket
CB Hotel including ground level shops, 1930 addition on Goulburn Street and interior
403–427 Pitt Street
Lot 10, DP 34060 (SP 47076)
Local
I857*
Haymarket
Chamberlain Hotel including interior
420–428 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 79095; Lot 10, DP 1111588 (SP 80022, SP 80261, SP 80357)
Local
I858*
Haymarket
Former “Manning Building” including interior
447–451 Pitt Street
Lots 11 and 12, DP 1058067 (SP 71061, SP 71062)
Local
I859*
Haymarket
Former Presbyterian Manse (461–465 Pitt Street) including interior
477 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 633690
Local
I860*
Haymarket
Former fire engine house including interior
477 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 633690
Local
I861*
Haymarket
Former “Australian Gaslight Co” including interior
477 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 633690
Local
I862*
Haymarket
Former “Daking House” including interior
11–23 Rawson Place
Lot 10, DP 868641
Local
I863*
Haymarket
Star Hotel including interior
385–387 Sussex Street
Lot 1, DP 185550
Local
I864*
Haymarket
Former Horwitz House building, including the following—
(a)  facade,
(b)  internal structure.
398–402 Sussex Street
Lot 1, DP 55229
Local
I2282*
Haymarket
Former Burlington Hotel including interior
431–439 Sussex Street
Lot 4, DP 591463
Local
I865*
Haymarket
Former Benevolent Society of NSW Hospital (175–179 Thomas Street) two storey building including interior
169–179 Thomas Street
Lot 3, DP 408335
Local
I866*
Haymarket
Former Markets Stores including interior
35–39 Ultimo Road
Lot 1, DP 561881
Local
I867*
Millers Point
Agar Steps
Agar Steps
 	
Local
I868
Millers Point
Argyle Place Park including fig trees, sandstone stairs, fence remnants, gas lamps and drinking fountain
Argyle Place
 	
Local
I872
Millers Point
Bridges over Hickson Road
Argyle Place (and Munn and Windmill Streets)
Lot 7, DP 43776
Local
I869
Millers Point
Shops and residences including interiors
1–7 Argyle Place
Lot 7, DP 739194 (SP 69703, SP 79818)
State
I870
Millers Point
Shops and residences including interiors
6–12 Argyle Place
Lot 1, DP 737194 (SP 69702)
State
I871
Millers Point
Bus shelter
Argyle Street
 	
Local
I873
Millers Point
Palisade Hotel including interior
35–37 Bettington Street
Lot 1, DP 738240; Lot 5, DP 869022
State
I874
Millers Point
Terrace group including interiors
66–68 Bettington Street
Lot 102, DP 1129795
State
I875
Millers Point
National Trust Centre including buildings and their interiors, retaining walls and grounds
1001 Bradfield Highway
Lots 1 and 2, DP 258013; Lot 1, DP 244444
Local
I876
Millers Point
Sandstone wall and stairs including iron palisade fence
Dalgety Road
Lot 17, DP 773848
Local
I877
Millers Point
Terrace group “Dalgety Terrace” (7–13A Dalgety Road) including interiors
7–35 Dalgety Road
Lot 103, DP 1129795
State
I878
Millers Point
Terrace group (15–35A Dalgety Road) including interiors
7–35 Dalgety Road
Lot 103, DP 1129795
State
I879
Millers Point
Former warehouse “MSB Stores” including interior
36 Hickson Road
Lot 12, DP 1065410
State
I880
Millers Point
Retaining wall, palisade fence and steps
High Lane
Lot 1, DP 869022
Local
I881
Millers Point
Palisade fence and High Steps
High Street
Lot 2, DP 869022
Local
I882
Millers Point
Terrace duplex group including interiors
2–36 High Street
Lot 8, DP 739194
State
I883
Millers Point
Terrace duplex group including interiors
3–9 High Street
Lot 18, DP 773849
State
I884
Millers Point
Terrace group (115–121 Kent Street) including interiors
3–9 High Street
Lot 18, DP 773849
State
I885
Millers Point
Lance Kindergarten including buildings and their interiors, early remnant fencing and grounds
37 High Street
Lot 9, DP 739194
Local
I886
Millers Point
Trees at Lance Kindergarten
37 High Street
Lot 9, DP 739194
Local
I887
Millers Point
Terrace duplex group
38–72 High Street
Lot 10, DP 739194
State
I888
Millers Point
Terrace duplex group
74–80 High Street
Lot 11, DP 739194
State
I889
Millers Point
Lane off Gas Lane including sandstone walls and wrought iron street light
Jenkins Street
 	
Local
I890
Millers Point
Former warehouse “Oswald Bond Free Store” including interior
1–17 Kent Street
Lot 2, DP 737194
State
I891
Millers Point
Millers Point Post Office including interior and outbuilding
10–12 Kent Street
Lot 5, DP 43741
State
I892
Millers Point
St Brigid’s Roman Catholic Church and School including buildings and their interiors and grounds
14–16 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 86217
State
I893
Millers Point
Terrace group including interiors
18–22 Kent Street
Lot 101, DP 1063868
State
I894
Millers Point
Lord Nelson Hotel including interior
19 Kent Street
Lot 3, DP 737194
State
I895
Millers Point
Shops and residences including interiors (9 Argyle Place)
21–29 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 739194 (Lots 1–3, SP 72082)
State
I896
Millers Point
Shops and residences including interiors (9 Argyle Place)
21–29 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 739194 (Lots 4–11, SP 72082)
State
I897
Millers Point
Commercial building “House of Bodleigh” including interior
24–26 Kent Street
Lot 100, DP 1063868
State
I898
Millers Point
Terrace house (28 Kent Street) including interior
28–94 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 618262
State
I899
Millers Point
Terrace house (30 Kent Street) including interior
28–94 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 618262
State
I900
Millers Point
Terrace group (32–40 Kent Street) including interiors
28–94 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 618262
State
I901
Millers Point
Terrace house (42 Kent Street) including interior
28–94 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 618262
State
I902
Millers Point
Terrace house (44 Kent Street) including interior
28–94 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 618262
State
I903
Millers Point
Terrace house (46 Kent Street) including interior
28–94 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 618262
State
I904
Millers Point
Terrace group (48–52 Kent Street) including interiors
28–94 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 618262
State
I905
Millers Point
Terrace house (54 Kent Street) including interior
28–94 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 618262
State
I906
Millers Point
Terrace group (56–62 Kent Street) including interiors
28–94 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 618262
State
I907
Millers Point
Terrace group “Blyth Terrace” (82–88 Kent Street) including interiors
28–94 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 618262
State
I908
Millers Point
Terrace group (90–92 Kent Street) including interiors
28–94 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 618262
State
I909
Millers Point
Terrace house “Toxteth” (94 Kent Street) including interior
28–94 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 618262
State
I910
Millers Point
Captain Cook Hotel including interior
33–35 Kent Street
Lot 10, DP 843179
State
I911
Millers Point
Terrace group “Alfred’s Terrace” (37–47 Kent Street) including interiors
37–55 Kent Street
Lot 2, DP 739194
State
I912
Millers Point
Terrace group (49–51 Kent Street) including interiors
37–55 Kent Street
Lot 2, DP 739194
State
I913
Millers Point
Terrace group (53–55 Kent Street) including interiors
37–55 Kent Street
Lot 2, DP 739194
State
I914
Millers Point
Terrace group “Hexham Terrace” including interiors
59–63 Kent Street
Lot 3, DP 739194
State
I915
Millers Point
Terrace group (71–73 Kent Street) including interiors
71–87 Kent Street
Lot 5, DP 739194
State
I916
Millers Point
Terrace group “Winsbury Terrace” and “Winsbury House” (75–79 Kent Street) including interiors
71–87 Kent Street
Lot 5, DP 739194
State
I917
Millers Point
Terrace house “Seaforth Terrace” (81 Kent Street) including interior
71–87 Kent Street
Lot 5, DP 739194
State
I918
Millers Point
Terrace group (83–85 Kent Street) including interiors
71–87 Kent Street
Lot 5, DP 739194
State
I919
Millers Point
Tennis court and pavilion
96–108 Kent Street
Lot 7003, DP 1071940
Local
I920
Millers Point
Terrace group “Agar Steps Terrace” (5–9 Agar Steps) including interiors
110–114 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 877598 (Lots 1–6, SP 57193)
Local
I921
Millers Point
Terrace group “Carlson Terrace” including interiors
110–114A Kent Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 877598
Local
I922
Millers Point
House “Richmond Villa” including interior
116–122 Kent Street
Lot 2, DP 258052
Local
I923
Millers Point
Terrace group including interiors
123–125 Kent Street
Lot 22, DP 773847
State
I924
Millers Point
Terrace group “Glover Cottages” including interiors
124–134 Kent Street
Lot 3, DP 258052; Lot 3, DP 258013
Local
I925
Millers Point
Hero of Waterloo Hotel including interior
81–83 Lower Fort Street
Lot 32, DP 788672
State
I926
Millers Point
Cottage and former workshop, wall and interiors
14–16 Merriman Street
Lot 93, DP 1063867
State
I927
Millers Point
Cottage (18 Merriman Street) including interior
18–48 Merriman Street
Lot 92, DP 1063867
State
I928
Millers Point
Terrace group (20–42 Merriman Street) including interiors
18–48 Merriman Street
Lot 92, DP 1063867
State
I929
Millers Point
Terrace group (44–48 Merriman Street) including interiors
18–48 Merriman Street
Lot 92, DP 1063867
State
I930
Millers Point
Terrace group (56–60 Bettington Street) including interiors
18–48 Merriman Street
Lot 92, DP 1063867
State
I931
Millers Point
Terrace group including interiors
18–20 Munn Street
Lots 6 and 7, DP 869022; Lot 2, DP 738240
State
I932
Millers Point
Retaining wall
Rhodens Lane
Lot 13, DP 823998
Local
I933
Millers Point
Observatory Park including Boer War Memorial, Bandstand, fences and landscaping
Upper Fort Street
Lot 7003, DP 1071940
Local
I935
Millers Point
Bureau of Meteorology including interior
9 Upper Fort Street
Lots 3, 4 and 9, DP 732592; Lots 107 and 108, DP 748340
Local
I936
Millers Point
Messenger’s Cottage for Sydney Observatory including interior
9A Upper Fort Street
Lot 106, DP 748340
Local
I937
Millers Point
Sydney Observatory group including buildings and their interiors and grounds
1003 Upper Fort Street
Lot 110, DP 872752; Lot 1, DP 618361
State
I934
Millers Point
Fort Street Primary School site including buildings and their interiors, fig trees and grounds
1005 Upper Fort Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 732592
Local
I938
Millers Point
Watson Road steps
Watson Road
Land in MS 2489
Local
I939
Millers Point
Community building “Abraham Mott Hall” including interior
2 Watson Road
Land in MS 2040.3000
Local
I940
Millers Point
Terrace group (1–63 Windmill Street) including interiors
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 96, DP 1073576
State
I941
Millers Point
Terrace house (65 Windmill Street) including interior
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 96, DP 1073576
State
I942
Millers Point
Terrace house (67 Windmill Street) including interior
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 95, DP 1073576
State
I943
Millers Point
Terrace house (69 Windmill Street) including interior
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 96, DP 1073576
State
I944
Millers Point
Terrace house (71 Windmill Street) including interior
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 96, DP 1073576
State
I945
Millers Point
Terrace house “Stevens Terrace” (73 Windmill Street) including interior
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 96, DP 1073576
State
I946
Millers Point
Former Shipwrights Arms Inn (75 Windmill Street) including interior
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 96, DP 1073576
State
I947
Millers Point
Terrace house “Argyle House” (85 Lower Fort Street) including interior
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 96, DP 1073576
State
I948
Millers Point
Lane between Argyle Place and Windmill Street (north of Argyle Place)
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 96, DP 1073576
Local
I949
Millers Point
Terrace group (24–32 Argyle Place) including interiors
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 96, DP 1073576
State
I950
Millers Point
House “Osborne House” (34 Argyle Place) including interior
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 94, DP 1073576
State
I951
Millers Point
Terrace group (36–44 Argyle Place) including interiors
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 96, DP 1073576
State
I952
Millers Point
Terrace group (46–48 Argyle Place) including interiors
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 96, DP 1073576
State
I953
Millers Point
House “Undercliff Cottage” (50 Argyle Place) including interior
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 96, DP 1073576
State
I954
Millers Point
Terrace group “Undercliff Terrace” (52–60 Argyle Place) including interiors
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 96, DP 1073576
State
I955
Millers Point
Terrace group (62–64 Argyle Place) including interiors
1–75 Windmill Street
Lot 96, DP 1073576
State
I956
Moore Park
Former Tollhouse including interior
Anzac Parade
Lots 1 and 10, DP 1034716; Lots 1774 and 1775, DP 821362
Local
I957
Moore Park
Sydney Boys High School group including buildings and interiors, zoological gardens remnants, landscaping and grounds
556–560 Cleveland Street
Lot 1744, DP 820527
Local
I958
Moore Park
Sydney Girls High School group including buildings and interiors, landscaping and grounds
556–560 Cleveland Street
Lot 1744, DP 820527
Local
I959
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
1–25 Angel Street
Lots 1–13, DP 221594
Local
I960
Newtown
Warehouse “Marcus Clark & Co” including interior
1–1A Brown Street
Lot 1, DP 84702
Local
I961
Newtown
Former Salvation Army Barracks including hall and interiors
8–10 Brown Street
Lot 10, DP 871134
Local
I962
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
17–19 Brown Street
Lot 1, DP 935001; Lot 1, DP 944314
Local
I963
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors
21–25 Brown Street
Lots 1–3, DP 593422
Local
I964
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
39–49 Brown Street
Lots 5–10, DP 33689
Local
I965
Newtown
House “Rowallon” including interior and front garden
40 Brown Street
Lots 52 and 53, DP 168
Local
I966
Newtown
Deaconess House including interior
24–28 Carillon Avenue
Lot 1, DP 66008
Local
I967
Newtown
Former Newtown Public School group including buildings and their interiors, fencing and grounds
50 Carillon Avenue
Lot 101, DP 866098
Local
I968
Newtown
Cottage including interior
1A Copeland Avenue
Lot 5, DP 33788
Local
I969
Newtown
Former Sydney Confectionery Company factory including interiors
10–12 Egan Street
Lot 1, DP 77654
Local
I2251
Newtown
Cottage “Hurlstone House” including interior
8 Fitzroy Street
Lot 1, DP 849556
Local
I970
Newtown
Warehouse “Belmonde” including interior
13–17 Fitzroy Street
Lot 2, DP 959166; Lot 38, DP 4656
Local
I971
Newtown
Former Convent of Mercy including buildings and their interiors, fence and grounds
5–23 Forbes Street
Lots 1, 11, 12, 25 and 26, DP 1222
Local
I972
Newtown
St Kieran’s Presbytery including interior
40 Forbes Street
Lot 334, DP 752049; Lots 122–124, DP 456920
Local
I973
Newtown
Terrace house (46 Forbes Street) including interior
44 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 748627,
Local
I974
Newtown
Terrace house including interior
48 Forbes Street
Lot 281, DP 997705; Lot 350, DP 752049,
Local
I974A
Newtown
Terrace including interior
50 Forbes Street
Lot 50, DP 1076008
Local
I974B
Newtown
Terrace house including interior and front fence
5 Georgina Street
Lot 8, DP 978821
Local
I975
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors and rear outbuilding at No. 51
23–51 Georgina Street
Lots 9–22, DP 4656; Lot 1, DP 772833
Local
I976
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
16–34 Gibbes Street
Lots 1–10, DP 442001
Local
I977
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors
25–35 Gibbes Street
Lots 1–6, DP 209329
Local
I978
Newtown
St Michael’s Church group including buildings and their interiors and grounds
19–23 Golden Grove Street
Lots 23–28, Section 35, DP 111120; Lot 14, DP 66240; Lot 15, DP 82954; Lot 16, DP 67786
Local
I979
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors
38–40 Hordern Street
Lot 1, DP 736372; Lot 1, DP 781559
Local
I980
Newtown
Cottage including interior
72 Hordern Street
Lot 12, Section 11, DP 111004; Lot 1, DP 781587
Local
I981
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors
74–76 Hordern Street
Lots A–B, DP 447385
Local
I982
Newtown
Commercial building “Victoria Buildings” including interior
2–4 King Street
Lot 4, DP 603035
Local
I983
Newtown
Commercial building “J Palmer Buildings” including interior
18–20 King Street
Lot 100, DP 1071827
Local
I984
Newtown
Former White Horse Hotel including interior
21 King Street
Lot 27, DP 939363
Local
I985
Newtown
Service station “Malcolm Motors” including interior
23–25 King Street
Lot 21, DP 1041490
Local
I986
Newtown
Cottage group including interiors and front fencing
33–35 King Street
Lots 11 and 12, DP 33414
Local
I987
Newtown
Commercial building “Trocadero Hall” including interior
69–77 King Street
Lot 5, DP 67004
State
I988
Newtown
Former commercial building “JC Everingham Dental Surgery” including interior
113–117 King Street
Lots 1–4, DP 456671
Local
I989
Newtown
Commercial building including interior
119–129 King Street
Lot A, DP 442044; Lots B–H, DP 442816
Local
I990
Newtown
Marlborough Hotel including interior
145 King Street
Lot 1, DP 232883
Local
I991
Newtown
Former Milton Hotel including interior
157 King Street
Lot 1, DP 780079
Local
I992
Newtown
Commercial building including interior
165–173 King Street
Lots 1–5, DP 435850
Local
I993
Newtown
Commercial building “Mary Bergin” including interior
168 King Street
Lot 1, DP 772821
Local
I994
Newtown
Newtown Hotel including interior
174–184 King Street
Lots 1–4, DP 243645; Lot 56, DP 872481
Local
I995
Newtown
Commercial building including interior
206–208 King Street
Lots 5 and 6, DP 975145
Local
I996
Newtown
Commercial building including interior
223–227 King Street
Lots 6–8, DP 217835
Local
I997
Newtown
Commercial building including interior
224–226 King Street
Lot 1, DP 75359
Local
I998
Newtown
Commercial building including interior
229–239A King Street
Lots 1–5, DP 217835
Local
I999
Newtown
Commercial building “C Whately” including interior
230–232 King Street
Lots B and C, DP 445531
Local
I1000
Newtown
Former Government Savings Bank including interior
240–242 King Street
Lot 1, DP 772836
Local
I1001
Newtown
Former Union Bank of NSW including interior
244 King Street
Lot 4, DP 781533
Local
I1002
Newtown
Commercial building including interior
260–266 King Street
Lots 1–3, DP 443709
Local
I1003
Newtown
Commonwealth Bank including interior
270–276 King Street
Lot 10, DP 880568; Lot 1, DP 81185
Local
I1004
Newtown
Newtown Mission Uniting Church including interior
280A–290 King Street
Lot 1, DP 778783
State
I1005
Newtown
Commercial building (282–284 King Street) including interior
280A–290 King Street
Lot 1, DP 778783
Local
I1006
Newtown
Commercial building (286–290 King Street) including interior
280A–290 King Street
Lot 1, DP 778783
Local
I1007
Newtown
Newtown Post Office including interior
292 King Street
Lot 1, DP 230907
Local
I1008
Newtown
Commercial building including interior
304–314 King Street
Lots 1–3, DP 602565
Local
I1009
Newtown
Bank Hotel including interior
324 King Street
Lot 2, DP 207726; Lot 1, DP 112982
Local
I1010
Newtown
Newtown Railway Station group including buildings and their interiors
324A King Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 225489
State
I1011
Newtown
Former Newtown Tram Depot group including interiors
326A King Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 87612
State
I1012
Newtown
Newtown Primary School (344–350 King Street) including buildings and their interiors, war memorial and grounds
344–358 King Street
Lot 1, DP 816132
Local
I1013
Newtown
Community building “St George’s Hall” (352 King Street) including interior
344–358 King Street
Lot 1, DP 816132
Local
I1014
Newtown
Saints Constantine and Helen Greek Orthodox Church including buildings and their interiors, front fence and grounds
366–378 King Street
Lot 1, DP 128253
Local
I1015
Newtown
Service station “Rising Sun” (426 King Street) including interior and front forecourt
424–430 King Street
Lot 1, DP 974877
Local
I1016
Newtown
Commercial building including interior
482–496 King Street
Lots 1–4, DP 440616; Lots 300–303, DP 1125334
Local
I1017
Newtown
Commercial building including interior
522–524A King Street
Lots 2 and 3, DP 231139
Local
I1018
Newtown
Union Hotel including interior
576–582 King Street
Lot 1, DP 340064
Local
I1019
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors and front fences
2–12 Linthorpe Street
Lots 1–6, DP 213796
Local
I1020
Newtown
House including interior
16 Linthorpe Street
Lot 1, DP 904213
Local
I1021
Newtown
Semi-detached house group including interiors and front fencing
36–40 Linthorpe Street
Lots 7–10, Section A, DP 4703
Local
I1022
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors
6–20 Little Queen Street
Lots 1–8, DP 33414
Local
I1023
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors
193–199 Missenden Road
Lots 1–4, DP 206350
Local
I1024
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors
74–76 O’Connell Street
Lots A and B, DP 442981
Local
I1025
Newtown
Three Proud People mural on the Leamington Lane elevation
39 Pine Street
Lot 117, DP 2070 and Lot 1, DP 103950
Local
I2221
Newtown
House “Wonga” including interior
43 Union Street
Lot 15, DP 549073
Local
I1026
Newtown
Terrace house including interior and front fencing
51 Union Street
Lot C, DP 446740
Local
I1027
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
1–2 Warren Ball Avenue
Lots 1 and 2, DP 4656
Local
I1028
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
3–6 Warren Ball Avenue
Lots 3–6, DP 4656
Local
I1029
Newtown
Terrace house including interior and front fence
8 Warren Ball Avenue
Lot 1, DP 772832
Local
I1030
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
26–28 Watkin Street
Lots A and B, DP 438400
Local
I1031
Newtown
Terrace house including interior
35 Watkin Street
Lot 6, Section 5, DP 513
Local
I1032
Newtown
Terrace house including interior and front fence
44 Watkin Street
Lot 4, Section 4, DP 513
Local
I1033
Newtown
House including interior and front fence
46 Watkin Street
Lots 2 and 3, Section 4, DP 513
Local
I1034
Newtown
Terrace house including interior
58 Watkin Street
Lot 2, DP 780339
Local
I1035
Newtown
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
67–69 Watkin Street
Lots A and B, DP 106195
Local
I1036
Newtown
Hollis Park including memorial obelisk, sandstone posts and landscaping
Wilson Street
Lots 33–36, DP 4656; Lot 1, DP 135315
Local
I1041
Newtown
Commercial building (1–9 Wilson Street) including interior
1–15 Wilson Street
Lot A, DP 375706
Local
I1037
Newtown
Former community building “Oddfellows Hall” including interior
71–75 Wilson Street
Lot 1, DP 304074 (SP 36825); Lots C and D, DP 102760
Local
I1038
Newtown
Terrace house part of “The Towers” including interior and front fence
76 Wilson Street
Lot 37, DP 975145
Local
I1039
Newtown
Former shop and stables group including interiors
105 Wilson Street
Lot 1, DP 982324
Local
I1040
Newtown
Terrace group including interior and front fence
169–175 Wilson Street
Lots 67 and 68, DP 2070; Lots 1 and 2, DP 872467
Local
I1042
Newtown
Former FW Gissing factory including interiors
197–207 Wilson Street
Lots 29–35, DP 2070
Local
I2252
Newtown
House “Willow Lodge” including interior
206 Wilson Street
Lot 1, DP 929613; Lot 1, DP 930262
Local
I1043
Paddington
Terrace house “Onslow House” including interior
31 Albion Avenue
Lot 15, DP 66935
Local
I1044
Paddington
Corner shop and residence including interiors
33 Albion Avenue
Part of Lots 1–4, Section 5, DP 975324
Local
I1045
Paddington
Flat building “Glammis” including interior
33 Bent Street
Lot 1, DP 65327
Local
I1046
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors
35–37 Bent Street
Lot 1, DP 584699; Lot 3, DP 845818
Local
I1047
Paddington
Cottage group including interiors
7–9 Church Place
Lot 122, DP 701086; Lot 142, DP 621787
Local
I1048
Paddington
Cottage “Clydesville” including interior
1 Church Street
Lot 11, DP 633018
Local
I1049
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
126–130 Flinders Street
Lot 1, DP 743141; Lot 1, DP 738754; Lot 15, DP 455794; Lot 1, DP 978820
Local
I1050
Paddington
Terrace house “Windermere” including interior, front fence and front path
132 Flinders Street
Lot 1, DP 782963
Local
I1051
Paddington
Terrace house including interior and front fence
134 Flinders Street
Lot 18, DP 1005760
Local
I1052
Paddington
Terrace house including interior and front fence
136 Flinders Street
Lot 1, DP 606355
Local
I1053
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors, front fences and entry path
138–140 Flinders Street
Lot 1, DP 995876; Lot 1, DP 708811
Local
I1054
Paddington
Terrace house including interior and front fence
142 Flinders Street
Lot 1, DP 64991
Local
I1055
Paddington
Terrace house including interior and front fence
144 Flinders Street
Lot 22, DP 978820
Local
I1056
Paddington
Terrace house “Moira” including interior and front fence
146 Flinders Street
Lot 1, DP 730521
Local
I1057
Paddington
Terrace house including interior and front fence
150 Flinders Street
Lot 1, DP 997633
Local
I1058
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
152–156 Flinders Street
Lots 25 and 26, DP 1108648; Lot 27, DP 1126932
Local
I1059
Paddington
Captain Cook Hotel including interior
162 Flinders Street
Lot 1, DP 88540
Local
I1060
Paddington
Commercial building including interior
5–7 Gordon Street
Lot 1, DP 61854
Local
I1061
Paddington
University of NSW College of Fine Arts including buildings and their interiors and grounds
1–37 Greens Road
Lot 1, DP 826022
Local
I1062
Paddington
Sisters of Charity Congregational Offices including interior
58 Leinster Street
Lot 100, DP 1103645
Local
I1063
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors
1–17 Little Napier Street
Lots 1–9, DP 748782
Local
I1064
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors
2–14 Little Napier Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 210534; Lots 6–10, DP 232533
Local
I1065
Paddington
Terrace house “Murilla” and stables, including front fence and interiors of house and stables
4 Moore Park Road
Lot 2, DP 1043562
Local
I1066
Paddington
Terrace house including interior and front fence
6 Moore Park Road
Lot 3, DP 1092095
Local
I1067
Paddington
Terrace house including interior and front fence
8 Moore Park Road
Lot 4, DP 68286
Local
I1068
Paddington
Terrace house including interior and front fence
10 Moore Park Road
Lot 10, DP 81924
Local
I1069
Paddington
Terrace house including interior and front fence
12 Moore Park Road
Lot 5, DP 772182
Local
I1070
Paddington
Terrace house including interior and front fence
14 Moore Park Road
Lot 100, DP 1115750
Local
I1071
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
16–18 Moore Park Road
Lots 101 and 102, DP 1115750
Local
I1072
Paddington
Terrace house including interior and front fence
20 Moore Park Road
Lot 1, DP 66336
Local
I1073
Paddington
Terrace house including interior and front fence
22 Moore Park Road
Lot 1, DP 197368
Local
I1074
Paddington
Terrace house including interior and front fence
24 Moore Park Road
Lot 10, DP 978820
Local
I1075
Paddington
Terrace house including interior and front fence
26 Moore Park Road
Lot 111, DP 997485
Local
I1076
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
28–30 Moore Park Road
Lot 101, DP 995162; Lot 1, DP 135335
Local
I1077
Paddington
Terrace house “Verulam” including interior and front fence
284 Moore Park Road
Lot 16, DP 939781
Local
I1078
Paddington
Olympic Hotel including interior
308 Moore Park Road
Lot 1, DP 82695
Local
I1079
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
404–408 Moore Park Road
Lot 1, DP 198098; Lot 1, DP 742679; Lot 331, DP 137259
Local
I1080
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors
25–31 Napier Street
Lots 47–50, DP 882971
Local
I1081
Paddington
Oatley Road Reserve including sandstone terrace walling and landscaping
Oatley Road
 	
Local
I1082
Paddington
Paddington Ambulance Station including interior
2 Oatley Road
Lot 1, DP 1068011
Local
I1083
Paddington
Semi-detached house including interior
47 Oatley Road
Lot 1, DP 744673
Local
I1084
Paddington
Terrace house including interior
49 Oatley Road
Lot 1, DP 76769
Local
I1085
Paddington
Victoria Barracks group
75 Oxford Street
Lot 2 DP 1068011; Lot 1627, DP 752011
Local
I1086
Paddington
Paddington Town Hall including interior
247 Oxford Street
Lot 10, DP 867184
State
I1087
Paddington
Walter Read Reserve and former Paddington Reservoir including western and eastern chambers and landscaping
251–255 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 1111940
State
I1088
Paddington
Commonwealth Bank including interior
259 Oxford Street
Lot A, DP 365675
Local
I1089
Paddington
St John’s Presbyterian Church group including buildings and their interiors and grounds
261–263 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 792757
Local
I1090
Paddington
Paddington Uniting Church group including buildings and their interiors and grounds
395 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 792755
Local
I1091
Paddington
Paddington Junior Technical School group including buildings and their interiors and grounds
421 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 724267; Lot 1, DP 795384; Lot 1, DP 792250
Local
I1092
Paddington
St Francis of Assisi Church group including buildings and their interiors and grounds
459A–463 Oxford Street
Lots 1–3, DP 1065137; Lots 4 and 5, DP 782349
Local
I1093
Paddington
Former house “Pendower” including interior
469 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 585799
Local
I1094
Paddington
St Matthias Church group including buildings and their interiors, front fence and grounds
471–475 Oxford Street
Lot 2, DP 203078
Local
I1095
Paddington
Shop and residence (2 Regent Street) including interiors
2–4 Regent Street
Lot 1, DP 236953
Local
I1096
Paddington
Terrace group (4 Regent Street) including interiors
2–4 Regent Street
Lot 2, DP 236953
Local
I1097
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
6–8 Regent Street
Lots 3 and 4, DP 236953
Local
I1098
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
10–16 Regent Street
Lots 5–8, DP 236953
Local
I1099
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
18–20 Regent Street
Lots 9 and 10, DP 236953
Local
I1100
Paddington
Dunbar Hotel including interior
27 Renny Street
Lot 1, DP 87272
Local
I1101
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors
1–17 Rose Terrace
Lots 24–32, DP 230915
Local
I1102
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors
2–20 Rose Terrace
Lots 11–20, DP 230915
Local
I1103
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors
1–9 Selwyn Street
Lot 1, DP 744639; Lot 1, DP 198804; Lots A–C, DP 908845
Local
I1104
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors
260–262 South Dowling Street
Lots 9 and 10, DP 230915
Local
I1105
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors
264–276 South Dowling Street
Lots 1–7, DP 230915
Local
I1106
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors
278–282 South Dowling Street
Lots 21–23, DP 230915
Local
I1107
Paddington
St Sophia Greek Orthodox Cathedral group including buildings and their interiors and fencing
302–304 South Dowling Street
Lot 1, DP 179371
Local
I1108
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors
368–374 South Dowling Street
Lot 1, DP 714658; Lots A and B, DP 187883; Lot 1, DP 84906
Local
I1109
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors
376–378 South Dowling Street
Lot 1, DP 84694; Lot 1, DP 83309
Local
I1110
Paddington
Terrace house including interior
1 Stewart Street
Lot 1, DP 1008303
Local
I1111
Paddington
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
52–58 Stewart Street
Lots A–D, DP 435376
Local
I1112
Paddington
House including interior
60 Stewart Street
Lot 2, DP 741679
Local
I1113
Paddington
House “Montrose Flats” including interior and front fence
99 Stewart Street
Lot 1, DP 1082254; Lot 11, DP 1068995
Local
I1114
Paddington
Cottage “Church Place Cottage” including interior
2 Ulster Street
Lot 10, DP 1002073
Local
I1115
Potts Point
The Mansions Hotel including interior
16–18 Bayswater Road
Lot 1, DP 188866
Local
I1117
Potts Point
Terrace group “Mansions Terrace” including interiors and front fencing
20–26 Bayswater Road
Lot 1, DP 900103; Lot 1, DP 931342; Lot 1, DP 931096; Lot 1, DP 110375
Local
I1118
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors
28–30 Bayswater Road
Lot B, DP 71866
Local
I1118A
Potts Point
Terrace house including interior
106 Brougham Street
Lot 33, DP 59835
Local
I1119
Potts Point
Butlers Stairs
Butlers Stairs
 	
Local
I1120
Potts Point
St Vincent’s Convent group including buildings and their interiors and grounds
1 Challis Avenue
Lots 11–17, DP 2436; Lot 1, DP 135902; Lot 19, DP 975168; Lot X, DP 415506
Local
I1121
Potts Point
Former convent “Bethania” and “Carmelita” (formerly 15–19 Challis Avenue) including interiors
1 Challis Avenue
Lot 1, DP 935719; Lot 10, DP 912103
Local
I1122
Potts Point
Terrace group “Korein” and “Maroura” including interiors, front fencing and paths
2 and 4 Challis Avenue
Lots 22 and 23, DP 2436
Local
I1123
Potts Point
Flat building “Camelot Hall” including interior
2A Challis Avenue
Lot 1, DP 174555 (SP 14260)
Local
I1124
Potts Point
Terrace house “Belgravia” including interior
8 Challis Avenue
Lots 27 and 28, DP 2436; Lot 1, DP 168701
Local
I1125
Potts Point
Terrace group “Byrock” and “Uralla” including interiors and front fencing
21–23 Challis Avenue
Lots 1 and 2, DP 234886
Local
I1126
Potts Point
Terrace group “Highclere” and “Romney Hall” including interiors and front fencing
25–27 Challis Avenue
Lot 4, DP 2436; Lot 3, DP 1035215 (SP 66780)
Local
I1127
Potts Point
Terrace house “Saraville” including interior
29 Challis Avenue
Lot 2, DP 2436
Local
I1128
Potts Point
The Bourbon Hotel (but only the facade of the Hotel to a depth of 8m from the front facade)
22–24 Darlinghurst Road
Part of Lot 1, DP 1097710
Local
I2290
Potts Point
The site of the Empire Hotel (excluding buildings and other structures)
32–32A Darlinghurst Road
Lot 1, DP 510235
Local
I2291
Potts Point
Former commercial building “Woolworths” and “Kings Cross Library” including interiors
50–52 Darlinghurst Road
Lot A, DP 386720
Local
I1129
Potts Point
Commercial Building “Minton House” including interior
72–80 Darlinghurst Road
Lot 1, DP 528183 (SP 78590)
Local
I1130
Potts Point
Terrace group, including former house of Juanita Nielson including interiors
11–13 Earl Street (and 198–202 Victoria Street)
Lots 1 and 2, DP 517879; Lot 1, DP 779629; Lots 1 and 2, DP 233390
Local
I1131
Potts Point
Kingsley Hall including interior
1A Elizabeth Bay Road
Lot 1, DP 191425
Local
I2289
Potts Point
Hordern’s Stairs
Hordern’s Stairs
 	
Local
I1132
Potts Point
Terrace house “Kellett House” including interior and front fence
1–1A Kellett Street
Lot 1, DP 336839
Local
I1133
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
3–11 Kellett Street
Lots A–E, DP 33077 (SP 37848, SP 50825, SP 17799); Lot 1, DP 181516
Local
I1134
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
13–17 Kellett Street
Lot 11, DP 625743; Lot 2, DP 614214
Local
I1135
Potts Point
Terrace group (54–58 Kellett Street) including interiors
54–64 Kellett Street
Lots 36 and 37, DP 192179; Lot E, DP 33744; Lot 1, DP 610701; Lot 3, DP 615495; Lots D–F, DP 430983; Lots A and B, DP 33743 (SP 16453, SP 70205)
Local
I1136
Potts Point
House (formerly 1 Kellett Way) including interior
54–64 Kellett Street
Lots 36 and 37, DP 192179; Lot E, DP 33744; Lot 1, DP 610701; Lot 3, DP 615495; Lots D–F, DP 430983; Lots A and B, DP 33743 (SP 16453, SP 70205)
Local
I1137
Potts Point
House “Jenner House” including interior and grounds
2 MacLeay Street
Lot 3, DP 218946
State
I1138
Potts Point
Terrace house “Santa Fe” including interior
55 MacLeay Street
Lot 1, DP 168761
Local
I1139
Potts Point
Former artists’ studio “The Yellow House” including interior
57–59 MacLeay Street
Lot 10, DP 1051045 (SP 70276, SP 76667)
Local
I1140
Potts Point
Flat building “Wirrawa” including interior
61–63 MacLeay Street
Lot 2, DP 103410
Local
I1141
Potts Point
Flat building “Werrington” including interior
85 MacLeay Street
Lot C, DP 100498 (SP 10578)
Local
I1142
Potts Point
Flat building “Byron Hall” including interior
97–99 MacLeay Street
Lot 1, DP 179682
Local
I1143
Potts Point
Commercial building “Minerva Building” including interior
105–111 MacLeay Street
Lot A, DP 189848
Local
I1144
Potts Point
Flat building “Cahors” including interior
117 MacLeay Street
Lot 2, DP 32920
Local
I1145
Potts Point
House “Tusculum” including interior, front fence and grounds
1–3 Manning Street
Lot 1, DP 710723
State
I1146
Potts Point
Flat building “Wychbury” including interior
5 Manning Street
Lot D, DP 100498
Local
I1147
Potts Point
McElhone Stairs
McElhone Stairs
 	
Local
I1148
Potts Point
Electrical substation No. 166
1 Orwell Lane
Lot 2, DP 179601
Local
I1149
Potts Point
Minerva Theatre, former “The Metro” including interior
28–30 Orwell Street
Lots 1–4, DP 456456; Lot 10, DP 10682
Local
I1150
Potts Point
Commercial building “The Roosevelt”, former 2KY Radio Station including interior
32–34 Orwell Street
Lot B, DP 341509
Local
I1151
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
2–4 Rockwall Crescent
Lots A and B, DP 106390
Local
I1152
Potts Point
House “Rockwall” including interior and front fence
5 Rockwall Crescent
Lot 217, DP 1006651
State
I1153
Potts Point
Terrace group “Brunswick Terrace” (6–14 Rockwall Crescent) including interiors and front fencing
6–16 Rockwall Crescent
Lots A–D, DP 110266 (SP 45495, Lots 1–4, SP 21615)
Local
I1154
Potts Point
Terrace group “Pamela Terrace” (16–20 Rockwall Crescent) including interiors and front fencing
10–20 Rockwall Crescent
Lots 10 and 11, DP 614563 (Lots 5–8, SP 21615); Lot 1, DP 202999 (SP 22536); Lot 1, DP 91810
Local
I1155
Potts Point
Flat building “Corrowong” including interior
1 Springfield Avenue
Lot 7, DP 12021 (SP 15983)
Local
I1156
Potts Point
Flat building “Kentworth Court” including interior and central portico
3 Springfield Avenue
Lot 8, DP 12021
Local
I1157
Potts Point
Flat building “Marden Hall” including interior and central portico
5 Springfield Avenue
Lot 9, DP 12021 (SP 10416)
Local
I1158
Potts Point
Flat building “Carinthia” including interior and central portico
7 Springfield Avenue
Lot 10, DP 12021
Local
I1159
Potts Point
Flat building “Scanlon Hall” including interior and central portico
9 Springfield Avenue
Lot 11, DP 12021
Local
I1160
Potts Point
Flat building “Carisbrooke” including interior, central portico and entry steps
11 Springfield Avenue
Lot 12, DP 12021
Local
I1161
Potts Point
Flat building “The Vanderbilt” including interior and central patio
13 Springfield Avenue
Lot 1, DP 1037166 (SP 67245)
Local
I1162
Potts Point
Cottage “Overcliff” including interior
38 Victoria Street
Lot F, DP 63565
Local
I1163
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
46–52 Victoria Street
Lots A–D, DP 33511 (SP 15251, SP 14708)
Local
I1164
Potts Point
Terrace house including interior and front fence
55 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 1167537
State
I1165
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
57–59 Victoria Street
Lots 2 and 3, DP 1167537
Local
I1166
Potts Point
Terrace group “Hortonbridge Terrace” including interiors
61–69 Victoria Street
Lots 4–8, DP 1167537
Local
I1167
Potts Point
Terrace house “Edina” including interior and front fence
75 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 1156935
Local
I1168
Potts Point
Terrace house “Hordern House” including interior and front fence
77–79 Victoria Street
Lot 2, DP 1156935
Local
I1169
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
80–102 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 930649; Lots 1–5, DP 248768; Lot 35, DP 4370; Lots 1–6, DP 229352
Local
I1173
Potts Point
Terrace house including interior, front fence and front path
81 Victoria Street
Lot 3, DP 1156935
Local
I1170
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors, front fencing and front paths
83–85 Victoria Street
Lots 4 and 5, DP 1156935
Local
I1171
Potts Point
Houses including interiors and front fences
97–99 Victoria Street
Lots 6 and 7, DP 1156935
Local
I1172
Potts Point
Terrace house (109 Victoria Street) including interior and front fence
101–115 Victoria Street
Lot 12, DP 595014; Lot 12, DP 599637 (SP 13672)
Local
I1174
Potts Point
Terrace house (111 Victoria Street) including interior and front fence
101–115 Victoria Street
Part of Lot 12, DP 595014; Lot 12, DP 599637 (Lots 147–149, SP 13672)
Local
I1175
Potts Point
House group (113–115A Victoria Street) including interiors and front fencing
101–115 Victoria Street
Part of Lot 12, DP 595014; Lot 12, DP 599637 (Lots 150–155, SP 13672)
Local
I1176
Potts Point
Flat building “Melton Flats” including interiors and front fence
116–118 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 975042
Local
I1177
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
119–121 Victoria Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 536957 (SP 34323)
Local
I1178
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
120–124 Victoria Street
Lot 120, DP 594467; Lot 1, DP 737610; Lot 1, DP 719801
Local
I1179
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors
123–125 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 69588
Local
I1180
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors and colonnade at the base of the rear building
127–139 Victoria Street
Lots 1–14, DP 255298; Lots 1 and 2, DP 180368; Lot 1, DP 169034; Lot 1, DP 168220; Lot 1, DP 167962; Lot 1, DP 105765; Lot 1, DP 103862 (SP 15240)
Local
I1181
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
141–143 Victoria Street
Lots 7–9, DP 109625
Local
I1182
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors and front fencing
152–154 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 558762; Lot B, DP 447387
Local
I1183
Potts Point
Terrace house including interior and front fence
155 Victoria Street
Lot 8, Section 3, DP 28
Local
I1184
Potts Point
Terrace group including interiors
157–159 Victoria Street
Lot 9, Section 3, DP 28; Lot 2, DP 170950; Lot 1, DP 1088935
Local
I1185
Potts Point
Terrace house including interior and front fence
158 Victoria Street
Lot 4, Section 2, DP 50262
Local
I1186
Potts Point
Terrace house (160 Victoria Street) including interior and front fence
160–162 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 1110213
Local
I1187
Potts Point
House (162 Victoria Street) including interior and front fence
160–162 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 1110213
Local
I1188
Potts Point
Terrace house including interior and front fence
161 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 796994; Lot 1, DP 170950
Local
I1189
Potts Point
Terrace house including interior
163 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 172552
Local
I1190
Potts Point
Terrace house including interior and front fence
164 Victoria Street
Lot 9, Section 2, DP 192548
Local
I1191
Potts Point
Piccadilly Hotel including interior
171–173 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 82775
Local
I1192
Potts Point
Terrace house including interior
180 Victoria Street
Lot 1, DP 540795
Local
I1193
Potts Point
Kings Cross Hotel including interior
248 William Street
Lot 1, DP 201712
Local
I1194
Potts Point
House group “Bomera” and “The Stables” including interiors and gardens
1 and 1B Wylde Street
Lots 1 and 3, DP 1053056
State
I1195
Potts Point
House “Tarana” including interior and gardens
1A Wylde Street
Lot 2, DP 1053056 (SP 70368)
State
I1196
Potts Point
Flat building “Wyldefel Gardens” including buildings and their interiors and central garden
8A Wylde Street
Lot 1, DP 988921 (SP 1350)
Local
I1197
Potts Point
Flat building including interior
17 Wylde Street
Lot 1, DP 664655
Local
I1198
Pyrmont
Cast iron palisade fence fronting Bowman and Cross Streets
 	
Lot 21, DP 873431
Local
I1202
Pyrmont
Eastern escarpment and palisade fence, above Pirrama Road
 	
Lot 50, DP 867853; Lot 13, DP 883135; Lots 1 and 4, DP 867854
Local
I1200
Pyrmont
Escarpment face from former quarry “Saunders’ Quarry”
 	
Lot 3, DP 839057; Lot 22, DP 1008425; Lot 100, DP 1013159; Lots 602 and 603, DP 1010086; Lot 37, DP 1071670; Lots 59, 61 and 62, DP 270215
Local
I1199
Pyrmont
Railway cutting
 	
Lot 94, DP 858635
State
I1203
Pyrmont
Railway cutting and bridge
 	
Lots 499 and 500, DP 1000217; Lots 55 and 58, DP 868356; Lot 10, DP 868832; Lot 2, DP 870305; Lot 21, DP 878273
State
I1204
Pyrmont
Western and northern escarpment, sandstone wall and steps, and palisade fence, above Pirrama road
 	
Lots 116 and 118, DP 872490
Local
I1201
Pyrmont
Former industrial building elements and industrial components “Edwin Davey & Sons Flour Mill”
2A Allen Street
Lot 1, DP 848441
Local
I1205
Pyrmont
Woolbrokers Arms Hotel including interior and courtyard
22 Allen Street
Lot 1, DP 79202
Local
I1206
Pyrmont
Former CSR Cooperage Building including interiors
56 Bowman Street
Lots 40 and 41, DP 270215 (SP 75963)
Local
I1207
Pyrmont
Former CSR Main Office including interiors
58 Bowman Street
Lot 1, DP 270215
Local
I1208
Pyrmont
Former CSR Gate House including interiors
58B Bowman Street
Lot 1, DP 270215
Local
I1209
Pyrmont
Former Caledonian Hotel and terrace group including interiors
120–140 Bowman Street (and 83 Point Street)
Lots 2–11, DP 226368; Lots 14 and 15, DP 846347
Local
I1210
Pyrmont
Former warehouse “Festival Records” including interiors
1–3 Bulwara Road (and 63–79 Miller Street)
Lots 1–3, DP 1116503
Local
I1211
Pyrmont
Former CSR McCaffery’s Building including interiors
21 Cadigal Avenue
Lot 33, DP 270215 (SP 69581, SP 74369)
Local
I1212
Pyrmont
Corner shop and residence “Charmelu” (35 Union Street) including interiors
63–67 Edward Street
Lots 3–6, DP 1087461
Local
I1213
Pyrmont
Former CSR Boiler House
3A Harris Street
Lot 22, DP 1079037
Local
I1214
Pyrmont
Former CSR Engineers’ Store including interiors
5–11 Harris Street
Lot 19, DP 1008189
Local
I1215
Pyrmont
Former Pyrmont Arms Hotel including interiors
42–44 Harris Street
Lot 152, DP 1043513 (SP 68480)
Local
I1216
Pyrmont
Terrace group including interiors
46–52 Harris Street
Lot 20, DP 873431; Lots 2–4, DP 860510
Local
I1217
Pyrmont
Point Hotel including interior and courtyard
59 Harris Street
Lot 20, DP 863889
Local
I1218
Pyrmont
Terminus Hotel including interior and courtyard
61 Harris Street
Lot 1, DP 66695
Local
I1219
Pyrmont
Terrace group including interiors
63–65 Harris Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 502738
Local
I1220
Pyrmont
Terrace house including interior
67 Harris Street
Lot 5, DP 607628
Local
I1221
Pyrmont
Corner shop and terrace group including interiors
74–80 Harris Street
Lots A–D, DP 50010
Local
I1222
Pyrmont
Former bakery including interiors, cartway and courtyard
82 Harris Street
Lot 1, DP 131342
Local
I1223
Pyrmont
Maybanke Kindergarten and playground including interiors and fence
87–99 Harris Street
Lots 3, 5 and 6, DP 576037; Lot 1, DP 844689
Local
I1224
Pyrmont
Former woolstore “Shute, Bell, Badgery and Lumby” including interiors
94–136 Harris Street
Lot 1, DP 62184; Lot 37, DP 77013; Lot 1, DP 555734; Lot 34, DP 85554; Lot 1, DP 66729
Local
I1225
Pyrmont
Terrace group including interiors
101–125 Harris Street
Lot 2, DP 844689; Lot 1, DP 556887; Lot 113, DP 1097637; Lot 3, DP 742000; Lot 2, DP 741187; Lot 1, DP 162365; Lot 1, DP 770106; Lot 1, DP 714567; Lot 23, DP 611085 (SP 57824); Lot 100, DP 827917; Lot 1, DP 1047124
Local
I1226
Pyrmont
Terrace group including interiors
135–155 Harris Street
Lot 1, DP 775467; Lots 2–10, DP 231589
Local
I1227
Pyrmont
Former Pyrmont Post Office including interiors, side passage and yard
146–148 Harris Street
Lot 1, DP 632835
State
I1228
Pyrmont
Former public hall including interiors
179 Harris Street
Lot 4, DP 586406
Local
I1229
Pyrmont
Terrace group including interiors
189–203 Harris Street
Lots 10–17, DP 1007788
Local
I1230
Pyrmont
Dunkirk Hotel including interior and courtyard
205–207 Harris Street
Lot 1, DP 448116
Local
I1231
Pyrmont
Quarryman’s Hotel including interior
214–216 Harris Street
Lot 2, DP 940383
Local
I1232
Pyrmont
Corner shop and terrace group including interiors, front gardens, fences and retaining walls
224–302 Harris Street
Lots 2–20, DP 31957; Lots 1–20, DP 31956; Lot 1, DP 31957 (SP 63445)
Local
I1233
Pyrmont
Commercial and residential terrace group including interiors and rear yards
304–308 Harris Street
Lots 41–43, DP 817244
Local
I1234
Pyrmont
Terrace group including interiors, front gardens and fences
54–66 John Street
Lots 46–52, DP 270215
Local
I1235
Pyrmont
Former Quarryman’s Arms Hotel including interiors and courtyard
75–77 John Street
Lots 1–2, DP 1010016
Local
I1236
Pyrmont
Former Pyrmont Public School including interiors, fences and grounds
79A John Street
Lot 2, DP 230424
Local
I1237
Pyrmont
Terrace group (286–318 Jones Street) including interiors
282–318 Jones Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 564098
Local
I1238
Pyrmont
Cottage (4 Ways Terrace) including interior and grounds
1 Mill Street
Lot 12, DP 856207
Local
I1239
Pyrmont
Terrace group including interiors
5–15 Mount Street
Lots 103 and 104, DP 1124659; Lots 5–8, DP 1010016
Local
I1240
Pyrmont
Former CSR Manager’s House (79–85 Harris Street) including interiors and grounds
30–52 Mount Street
Lot 1, DP 633390
Local
I1241
Pyrmont
Terrace group (31–41 Mount Street) including interiors
31–45 Mount Street
Lots 12–17, DP 1010016
Local
I1242
Pyrmont
Former CSR Rum Store including interiors
6–8 Mount Street Walk
Lot 25, DP 270215 (SP 63595)
Local
I1243
Pyrmont
Former warehouse “Harry Lesnie Pty Ltd” including interiors
47–49 Murray Street
Lots 19 and 20, DP 87656
Local
I1244
Pyrmont
Former warehouse “HS Bird & Co” including interiors
51–53 Murray Street
Lots 17 and 18, DP 32575
Local
I1245
Pyrmont
Former woolstore “Clarence Bonded and Free Stores” including interiors
139 Murray Street
Lot 16, DP 33491
Local
I1246
Pyrmont
Terrace group including interiors
1–21 Paternoster Row
Lots 1 and 2, DP 597792; Lots 23–31, DP 109844
Local
I1247
Pyrmont
Remnant Former Pyrmont Baths including rock outcrop, hewn steps and piles visible at low tide
22–24 Pirrama Road
Lot 115, DP 872490
Local
I1248
Pyrmont
“Jones Bay Wharf” (Wharf 60, Berths 19–20) including wharf, sea wall, sheds and interiors, lower and elevated road and industrial artefacts
26–32 Pirrama Road
Lots 1 and 2, DP 1050360 (SP 69950, SP 69951, SP 70641)
Local
I1249
Pyrmont
Former garage including interiors, yard, wharf and seawall (formerly 17A Pirrama Road)
34 Pirrama Road
Lot 11, DP 883135
Local
I1250
Pyrmont
Former Royal Edward Victualling Yard warehouses “A” and “B” including interiors, wharf, sea wall, yard and industrial archaeology
38–42 Pirrama Road
Lot 1, DP 218445
State
I1251
Pyrmont
Naval Warehouse, Darling Island Former Royal Edward Victualling Yard warehouse “C” including interiors, wharf, seawall, yard and industrial artefacts
38–42 Pirrama Road
Lot 2, DP 218445
State
I1252
Pyrmont
Terrace group (2A–2B Mill Street) including interiors
10 Point Street
Lots 10 and 11, DP 856207 (SP 69344)
Local
I1253
Pyrmont
Residential flat building “Ways Terrace” including interiors, grounds, sandstone retaining walls
12–20 Point Street
Lot 5, DP 839315
Local
I1254
Pyrmont
Pyrmont Bridge Road Hotel including interior and courtyard
11 Pyrmont Bridge Road
Lot 1, DP 83296
Local
I1255
Pyrmont
Former warehouse “Bank of NSW Stores” including interiors
17–21 Pyrmont Bridge Road
Lot 1, DP 81832
Local
I1256
Pyrmont
Former MWS&DB Sewage Pumping Station No 2 including interior
103 Pyrmont Bridge Road
Lot 1, DP 1012251
Local
I1257
Pyrmont
Samuel Hordern Fountain including base and setting
Pyrmont Street, corner Pyrmont Bridge Road
 	
Local
I1266
Pyrmont
Warehouse “Slades Building” and terrace group including interiors
12–18 Pyrmont Street
Lots 1–8, DP 1118495; Lots 1–7, DP 4520; Lots 2–4, DP 714887
Local
I1258
Pyrmont
Former Pyrmont Power Station Administrative building (42 Pyrmont Street) including interiors
20–80 Pyrmont Street
Lot 300, DP 873212
Local
I1259
Pyrmont
Cottage group including interiors
27–29 Pyrmont Street
Lot 1, DP 716793; Lot 1, DP 745182
Local
I1260
Pyrmont
St Bede’s Church group including church, presbytery, school and their interiors, ground and fence
33–43 Pyrmont Street
Lot 2, DP 791724
Local
I1261
Pyrmont
Group of three cottages (two at 93 Pyrmont Street) including interiors and including former shop (93) and courtyard (93)
91–93 Pyrmont Street
Lots 6 and 7, DP 242530
Local
I1262
Pyrmont
Former wool store “John Taylor Wool Stores” including interiors and industrial artifacts (woolpress)
137 Pyrmont Street
Lot 2, DP 59052
Local
I1263
Pyrmont
Terrace group including interiors
142–168 Pyrmont Street
Lots 1–14, DP 33491
Local
I1264
Pyrmont
Pyrmont Fire Station including interior
147 Pyrmont Street
Lot 10, DP 1060282
Local
I1265
Pyrmont
Remnants of former CSR Laboratory B building including retaining walls and industrial artefacts
25 Refinery Drive
Lot 39, DP 270215 (SP 72677)
Local
I1267
Pyrmont
Former CSR Tablet House including interiors
29 Refinery Drive
Lot 27, DP 270215 (SP 73749)
Local
I1268
Pyrmont
Semi-detached house group including interiors and grounds
2–8 Scott Street
Lots 100–102, DP 881053; Lot 5, DP 860510
Local
I1269
Pyrmont
Terrace group (1–5 Cross Street) including interiors and grounds
6–8 Scott Street
Lots 100–102, DP 881053
Local
I1270
Pyrmont
Union Square War Memorial including platform and setting
Union Street
 	
Local
I1271
Pyrmont
Former Australian Joint Stock Bank including interiors
1 Union Street
Lot 23, DP 32232
Local
I1272
Pyrmont
Commonwealth Bank of Australia building and terrace group including interiors
2–22 Union Street
Lot 1, DP 68237; Lot 1, DP 73017; Lot 14, DP 66556; Lots 1–5, DP 242530; Lots 11 and 12, DP 869392; Lot 1, DP 75877; Lot 100, DP 1109111
Local
I1273
Pyrmont
Terrace group including interiors
31–33 Union Street
Lots 1, 2 and 5, DP 1087461
Local
I1274
Pyrmont
Former New York Hotel including interiors
50 Union Street
Lot 2005, DP 1103434
Local
I1275
Pyrmont
Terrace group including interiors
86–92 Union Street
Lot 3, DP 77166
Local
I1276
Pyrmont
Pyrmont Bridge Hotel including interior
94–96 Union Street
Lot 1, DP 66698
Local
I1277
Redfern
NSW Mounted Police Barracks and Taoist Association of Australia group buildings and garden, landscaping, compound wall, including interior
7 Baptist Street (and 747–757 Bourke Street)
Lots 123–125, DP 1009048
Local
I1278
Redfern
Residential flat building “Edelweiss” including interior
56 Baptist Street
Lot B, DP 110071
Local
I1279
Redfern
Corner shop/house including interior
728 Bourke Street
Lot 10, DP 1042904
Local
I1280
Redfern
Terrace group including interiors
752–754 Bourke Street
Lot 100, DP 810644 (Lots 65 and 66, SP 39192)
Local
I1282
Redfern
Former cottage including interior
763 Bourke Street
Lot 3, DP 1073579
Local
I1283
Redfern
Former warehouse facade “Reckitt & Coleman”
780 Bourke Street
Lot 2, DP 270095 (SP 51517)
Local
I1284
Redfern
Former Reschs Waverley Brewery (793 South Dowling Street) entrance block, brewhouse, engine house, office blocks, stores and stables, including interiors
780 Bourke Street
Lot 2, DP 270095 (SP 51517)
Local
I1285
Redfern
Terrace house including interior
809 Bourke Street
Lot 2, DP 72361
Local
I1286
Redfern
“Dascom E Cottage” including interior
46–48 Burnett Street
Lot 32, DP 135573
Local
I1287
Redfern
Cottage including interior
62–66 Burnett Street
Lot 1, DP 817459
Local
I1288
Redfern
Woolpack Hotel including interior
229 Chalmers Street
Lot 1, DP 82757; Lot 1, DP 349181
Local
I1289
Redfern
Cottage remnant
39–43 Chelsea Street
Lot 1, DP 68124; Lots 12 and 13, DP 192510
Local
I1290
Redfern
Cottage including interior
44 Chelsea Street
Lot 1, DP 998268
Local
I1291
Redfern
Ward boundary marker
Cleveland Street, corner South Dowling Street
 	
Local
I1308
Redfern
House including front fence and interior
201 Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 168805
Local
I1292
Redfern
Cottages “Tutulla” and “Tivoli” including front fences and interiors
203–205 Cleveland Street
Lot 5, DP 711626; Lot 6, DP 996732
Local
I1293
Redfern
Park Hotel including interior and fence
207 Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 74425
Local
I1294
Redfern
Terrace group including interiors
209–213 Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 196109; Lot 1, DP 738871; Lot 1, DP 736400
Local
I1295
Redfern
Former “Demco Machinery Co” including interior
267–271 Cleveland Street
Lots 1–6, Section B, DP 1199
Local
I1296
Redfern
Surrey Club Hotel including interior
273 Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 183268
Local
I1297
Redfern
“Landshipping House” (289 Cleveland Street) including interior
285–289 Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 213066
Local
I1298
Redfern
Terrace house “Saxtonia” including interior
291 Cleveland Street
Lot B, DP 186789
Local
I1299
Redfern
Terrace house “Evelyn” including interior
293 Cleveland Street
Lot A, DP 186789
Local
I1300
Redfern
Terrace house including interior
295 Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 431423
Local
I1301
Redfern
Terrace house including interior
297 Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 176145
Local
I1302
Redfern
Shops and residences including interiors
299–301 Cleveland Street
Lots A and B, DP 100737
Local
I1303
Redfern
Former “Stage Club” including interior
303 Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 722997
Local
I1304
Redfern
Former Bank of NSW including interior
397–399 Cleveland Street
Lot 2, DP 112938; Lot 1, DP 72567
Local
I1305
Redfern
Former Cleveland Inn Hotel including interior
433 Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 71321
Local
I1306
Redfern
Bat & Ball Hotel including interior
495 Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 64751; Lot 1, DP 78221
Local
I1307
Redfern
Terrace group including front embankment and interiors
520–550 Elizabeth Street
Lot 234, DP 620818; Lots 9–20 and 22, DP 9150; Lot 21, DP 658415
Local
I1309
Redfern
Terrace group “Pleasant Terrace” (552–564 Elizabeth Street) including front embankment and interiors
552–566 Elizabeth Street
Lots 1–8, DP 9150 (SP 50650)
Local
I1310
Redfern
Terrace group including interiors
567–571 Elizabeth Street
Lots 7–9, DP 456527
Local
I1311
Redfern
“Stanton Mellick” including interior
583 Elizabeth Street
Lot 15, Section B, DP 1199
Local
I1312
Redfern
Church “The Where Kakakel” including interior
587 Elizabeth Street
Lots 18–21, Section B, DP 1199
Local
I1313
Redfern
Terrace house including interior
18 George Street
Lot 2, DP 606611
Local
I1314
Redfern
“Star House” including interior
54 George Street
Lot A, DP 333459
Local
I1315
Redfern
Fence posts on Renwick Street
68 George Street
Lot 1, DP 780899
Local
I1316
Redfern
Former Redfern Hotel including interior
88 George Street
Lot 1, DP 621194
Local
I1317
Redfern
Redfern Telephone Exchange including interior
103–109 George Street
Lot 2, DP 776807
Local
I1318
Redfern
Terrace group including interiors
179–193 George Street
Lots 1 and 8, DP 110152; Lots 5–10, DP 2939
Local
I1319
Redfern
“Clyde House” including interior
195–197 George Street
Lot 11, DP 1052248
Local
I1320
Redfern
Electrical substation
2 Great Buckingham Street
Lot 123, DP 667234
Local
I1321
Redfern
Former A Hordern & Sons factory complex including interiors
53–63 Great Buckingham Street (and 611–619 Elizabeth Street)
Lots 1 and 2, DP 554763; Lots 3 and 4, DP 1133420; Lots 91 and 92, Section B, DP 1199 (SP 85303, SP 81582)
Local
I2253
Redfern
Terrace house “Waratah” including interior
117 Lawson Street
Lot 2, DP 98
Local
I1322
Redfern
Semi-detached cottages including interiors
2–4 Little Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 723370; Lot 1, DP 723369
Local
I1323
Redfern
Semi-detached cottages including interiors
30–32 Little Cleveland Street
Lot B, DP 448413; Lot 2, DP 589929
Local
I1324
Redfern
Cottage including interior
47 Little Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 997194
Local
I1325
Redfern
Cottage including interior
2 Little Young Street
Lots 23 and 25, Section 4, DP 8751
Local
I1326
Redfern
Terrace house “Nanine” including interior
39 Maddison Street
Lot 4, DP 803231 (SP 36980)
Local
I1327
Redfern
Terrace house “Violetta” including interior
41 Maddison Street
Lot 29, DP 4734
Local
I1328
Redfern
Terrace group including interiors
45–51 Maddison Street
Lot 100, DP 810644 (Lots 61–64, SP 39192)
Local
I1281
Redfern
Former “Hodbin Poole Printers” facades
99 Marriott Street
Lot A, DP 107314 (SP 53204)
Local
I1329
Redfern
Cottage including interior
39 Morehead Street
Lot 24, Section 4, DP 8751
Local
I1330
Redfern
“Fitzroy Terrace” including interiors
6–18 Pitt Street
Lots 1–5, DP 74000; Lots 1 and 2, DP 547126
State
I1331
Redfern
Terrace group including interiors
20–30 Pitt Street
Lots 1–6, DP 34064
Local
I1332
Redfern
Cottage including interior
42 Pitt Street
Lot B, DP 183399; Lot 1, DP 799056
Local
I1333
Redfern
Cottage including interior
44 Pitt Street
Lot 2, DP 599375
Local
I1334
Redfern
Terrace group including interiors
46–50 Pitt Street
Lot 24, DP 710583; Lot 1, DP 800794; Lot 1, DP 1031579
Local
I1335
Redfern
Terrace house including interior
49 Pitt Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 780627
Local
I1336
Redfern
Terrace group including interiors
56–60 Pitt Street
Lots A–C, DP 165066
Local
I1337
Redfern
Terrace houses including interiors
62–64 Pitt Street
Lots A and B, DP 106159
Local
I1338
Redfern
Redfern Town Hall including interior
73 Pitt Street
Lot 27, DP 135269
Local
I1339
Redfern
Former “Quirk’s Store” including rear coach house and interior
74 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 447212
Local
I1340
Redfern
Terrace group including interiors
79–85 Pitt Street
Lots A–D, DP 106037
Local
I1341
Redfern
Terrace house including interior
87 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 63633
Local
I1342
Redfern
Cottage including interior
111 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 924007
Local
I1343
Redfern
Former shop and residence including interior
130–132 Pitt Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 447453
Local
I1344
Redfern
Terrace house/shop including interior
189 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 197990
Local
I1345
Redfern
Former Somerset Hotel including interior
191 Pitt Street
Lot 5, DP 83073
Local
I1346
Redfern
Redfern Park including low sandstone perimeter walls, entrance gates, fountain and war memorials and landscaping
Redfern Street
Lot 1, DP 135313; Lot 1, DP 724757
Local
I1347
Redfern
St Vincent’s Roman Catholic Church group church building, presbytery and school building, including interiors
111–117 Redfern Street
Lots 1 and 4, DP 86719
Local
I1348
Redfern
Redfern Post Office including interior
119 Redfern Street
Lot 1, DP 776807
State
I1349
Redfern
Shop and residence including interiors
122 Redfern Street
Lot 1, DP 60792
Local
I1350
Redfern
Terrace house including interior
124 Redfern Street
Lot 51, DP 882837 (SP 60156)
Local
I1351
Redfern
St Luke’s Presbyterian Church including interior
118 Regent Street
Lot 1, DP 194067
Local
I1352
Redfern
Former Aboriginal Legal Service
142 Regent Street
Lot 22, DP 1094178 (SP 76851)
Local
I2294
Redfern
Former Aboriginal Medical Service
171 Regent Street
Lot 2, DP 438236
Local
I2295
Redfern
Terrace house including interior
181 Regent Street
Lot 1, DP 781853
Local
I1353
Redfern
Former Redfern Municipal Electric Light Station including interior
78 Renwick Street
Lot 1, DP 742476
Local
I1354
Redfern
Electricity Substation No 112 including interiors
99 Renwick Street
Lot B, DP 175502
Local
I2254
Redfern
Terrace group “Park Lane Lodge” hotel and house including interiors
745–747 South Dowling Street
Lots 6 and 7, DP 3941
Local
I1355
Redfern
Terrace house including interior
767 South Dowling Street
Lots 32 and 33, DP 1852
Local
I1356
Redfern
Cottage including interior
16 Stirling Street
Lot 6, Section A, DP 192090
Local
I1357
Redfern
Former warehouse
11–17 Thurlow Street
Lot 2, DP 233488
Local
I1358
Redfern
Terrace group including interiors
21–25 Turner Street
Lots 2–4, DP 996729; Lot 1, DP 741402
Local
I1359
Redfern
“Zetland Terraces” including interiors
12–32 Walker Street
Lots 6–16, Section 1, DP 8750
Local
I1360
Redfern
Wood block paving beneath bitumen surface
Wells Street
 	
Local
I1361
Redfern
Terrace group including interiors
17–31 Wells Street
Lots 1–4, DP 253993; Lots A–D, DP 434259
Local
I1362
Redfern
Terrace group including interiors
57 and 59–65 Wells Street
Lots A–C, DP 447576; Lot A, DP 35212; Lot 57, DP 1042461
Local
I1363
Redfern
“Tamworth Terraces” including interiors
17–61 William Street
Lots 7–14, DP 34064; Lot 2, DP 258696; Lots 20–22, DP 608168; Lots 1 and 3–12, DP 1120868
Local
I1364
Redfern
Terrace group including interiors
44–58 William Street
Lots 9–14, DP 237395; Lots A and B, DP 109242
Local
I1365
Redfern
Terrace houses including interiors
60–62 William Street
Lot 1, DP 196483; Lot 1, DP 196788
Local
I1366
Redfern
Terrace houses including interiors
64–66 William Street
Lot 1, DP 198492; Lot 1, DP 996731
Local
I1367
Redfern
“Telopea Terraces” including interiors
61–101 Young Street
Lots 1–15, DP 108305; Lots A–F, DP 107478
Local
I1368
Redfern
St Saviour’s Anglican Church group church and rectory including interiors
117–119 Young Street
Lot 1, DP 177708; Part Lot A, DP 359196
Local
I1369
Rosebery
Rosebery Hotel including interior
569 Botany Road
Lots 1 and 2, DP 456926
Local
I1370
Rosebery
Former “Tucker & Co” including interior
755–759 Botany Road
Lots 1334–1336, DP 456891
Local
I1371
Rosebery
Former “British General Electric Co” including interior
797–807 Botany Road
Lot 11, DP 829392
Local
I1372
Rosebery
Gardeners Road Public School buildings and grounds, including interiors
827 Botany Road
Lot 11, DP 813585
Local
I1373
Rosebery
Former Wrigley’s factory including interiors
6–8 Crewe Place
Lot 1, DP 815997 (SP 46973, SP 57649)
Local
I2255
Rosebery
Bungalow house, garden and fence including interior
5 Dalmeny Avenue
Lot 107, DP 7534
Local
I1374
Rosebery
Greek Orthodox Church including interior
34–36 Dalmeny Avenue
Lots 627 and 628, DP 7534
Local
I1375
Rosebery
“Paradise Garage” warehouse including interior
25–27 Dunning Avenue
Lots 35 and 36, Section A, DP 192683
Local
I1376
Rosebery
Former Rosella Preserving Manufacturing Co north office and factory buildings and south building, including internal structure and Morley Avenue building setback
85–113 Dunning Avenue
Lot B, DP 335264
Local
I2256
Rosebery
Electricity Substation No 192 including interiors
88 Dunning Avenue
Lots 53 and 54, Section 2, DP 2269
Local
I2257
Rosebery
Former Commonwealth Weaving Mills and Frederick Rose factories including interiors
115–133 Dunning Avenue
Lots 371, 372, 385 and 386, DP 7534; Lot 1, DP 330260
Local
I2258
Rosebery
Former Otis Elevator Co factory including interiors
120 Dunning Avenue
Lot 3, DP 1112029 (SP 82073)
Local
I2259
Rosebery
Former Westinghouse factory including interiors
135–151 Dunning Avenue
Lot B, DP 330260
Local
I2260
Rosebery
Electricity Substation No 128 including interiors
142 Dunning Avenue
Lot 10, DP 829392
Local
I2261
Rosebery
“Eveready Australia”
30–40 Harcourt Parade
Lot 1, DP 880486 (SP 66367, SP 78368)
Local
I1377
Rosebery
Former RC Henderson Ltd factory including interiors
1–11 Hayes Road
Lots 1 and 2, DP 411415
Local
I2262
Rosebery
Mentmore House
5–11 Mentmore Avenue
Lots 405 and 406, DP 7534
Local
I1378
Rosebery
Former Cyclone Fence and Gate Co factory, office and south warehouse including internal structure of north office building and south warehouse, Morley Avenue building setback and fence
61–71 Mentmore Avenue (and 34 Morley Avenue)
Lot A, DP 335264
Local
I2263
Rosebery
Former “Moffat Virtue” warehouse and office building including interiors
1–3 Rosebery Avenue
Lots C and D, DP 401964
Local
I1379
Rosebery
Warehouse (12 Primrose Avenue) including interior
23–25 Rosebery Avenue
Lot 2, DP 880733
Local
I1380
Rosebery
St Joseph’s Catholic Church including interior
74 Rosebery Avenue
Lots 606–611 and 698–705, DP 7534
Local
I1381
Rosebery
Former warehouse including interior
24 Rothschild Avenue
Lots 1 and 2, DP 456612; Lots 410 and 456, DP 7534
Local
I1382
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “Eaton” including interior
40A Bayswater Road
Lot 1, DP 179669 (SP 14285)
Local
I1383
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “Palm Court” including interior
42 Bayswater Road
Lot 2, DP 179669 (SP 14711)
Local
I1384
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “Garden Vale” including interior
42 Bayswater Road
Lot 3, DP 179669 (SP 14366)
Local
I1385
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “Coonana” including interior
42 Bayswater Road
Lot 4, DP 179669 (SP 14365)
Local
I1386
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “Kalua” including interior and landscaped thoroughfare. Formerly Eatan Avenue
42 Bayswater Road
Lot 5, DP 179669 (SP 14364)
Local
I1387
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “Omeo” including interior
42 Bayswater Road
Lot 12, DP 179669 (SP 14368)
Local
I1388
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “The Grampians” including interior
42 Bayswater Road
Lot 11, DP 179669 (SP 14367)
Local
I1389
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “La Rea” including interior
42 Bayswater Road
Lot 10, DP 179669 (SP 14710)
Local
I1390
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “Kiewa” including interior
42A Bayswater Road
Lot A, DP 104812 (SP 14159, SP 19591)
Local
I1391
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “The Girvans” including interior
44 Bayswater Road
Lot B, DP 104812 (SP 13945)
Local
I1392
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “Brentwood” including interior
44A Bayswater Road
Lot 1, DP 60776 (SP 13946, SP 70894)
Local
I1393
Rushcutters Bay
Cottage “Aringa” including interior
61 Elizabeth Bay Road
Lot 2, DP 810950
Local
I1394
Rushcutters Bay
Terrace group “Hargrave Terrace” including interiors and front fence
40–44 Roslyn Gardens
Lot A, DP 82105; Lots 1 and 2, DP 812437
Local
I1395
Rushcutters Bay
St Canice’s Roman Catholic Church including interior and grounds
24–28 Roslyn Street
Lot 1, DP 191316; Lots 1 and 2, DP 456567; Lot 1, DP 433692
Local
I1396
Rushcutters Bay
Terrace group including interiors and front fence
25–31 Roslyn Street
Lots 2–5, DP 200152
Local
I1397
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “Maxwell Lodge” including interior
35 Roslyn Street
Lot 6, DP 176969 (SP 16852)
Local
I1398
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “Glenelg”
37 Roslyn Street
Lot 7, DP 179669 (SP 16934)
Local
I1399
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “Roslyn” including interior
39 Roslyn Street
Lot 8, DP 179669 (SP 11338)
Local
I1400
Rushcutters Bay
Flat building “Bishops Court” including interior
41 Roslyn Street
Lot 9, DP 179669
Local
I1401
Rushcutters Bay
Terrace group including interiors and front fence
43–51 Roslyn Street
Lots 1–5, DP 108033
Local
I1402
Rushcutters Bay
Rushcutters Bay Park and pumping station including grandstand, Rey Bartley Oval and picket fence, seawall and landscaping
Waratah Street
Land in MS 3197.3000; Lots 1 and 2, DP 554114
State
I1403
Rushcutters Bay
House “Oakleigh” including interior and front fence
18 Ward Avenue
Lot 1, DP 917103
State
I1404
St Peters
Warehouse “Rudders Bond Store” including interior
53–57 Campbell Road
Lot 101, DP 845651; Lot 102, DP 871150
Local
I1405
Surry Hills
Prince Alfred Park including fence, tree planting, ground and coronation centre
 	
Lots 21 and 22, DP 594873; Lot 24, DP 637261; Lots 1 and 2, DP 874757
Local
I1406
Surry Hills
Cottage including interior
2 Adelaide Place
Lot A, DP 446113
Local
I1407
Surry Hills
Former “William Booth Institute” including interior
56–58 Albion Street
Lot 1, DP 169869
Local
I1408
Surry Hills
Former Children’s Court building, including interior
66–78 Albion Street
Lot 1, DP 934654
Local
I1409
Surry Hills
St Francis de Sales group buildings, including interiors
80–96 Albion Street
Lots 11 and 12, DP 858471; Lot 2, DP 86720 (SP 52821)
Local
I1410
Surry Hills
Corner shop and residence including interiors
87 Albion Street
Lot 1, DP 658914
Local
I1411
Surry Hills
Former Farnham Arms Hotel including interior
89–91 Albion Street
Lot 1, DP 226472
Local
I1412
Surry Hills
House “Albert Villa” including interior
169 Albion Street
Lot 1, DP 50402
Local
I1413
Surry Hills
Terrace and stable group “Datcha” including interiors
177–177A Albion Street
Lot 4, DP 590496; Lot 1, DP 716810
Local
I1414
Surry Hills
“Carlingford Terrace” including interiors
179–193 Albion Street
Lot 1, DP 744905; Lots 1–5 and 7–8, DP 106586 (SP 16752, SP 16955); Lot 20, DP 1070364; Lot 1, DP 741154; Lot 1, DP 198967; Lots 61 and 62, DP 1006296
Local
I1415
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
197–201 Albion Street
Lots 1–3, DP 235630
State
I1416
Surry Hills
Cottages including interiors
203–205 Albion Street
Lot 1, DP 1017454
State
I1417
Surry Hills
Terrace houses including interiors
14–16 Arthur Street
Lots 2 and 3, DP 252228
Local
I1418
Surry Hills
Former St David’s Church group church and residence including interiors
17–19 Arthur Street
Lots 221 and 222, DP 584637
Local
I1419
Surry Hills
House “Clydesville” including interior
18 Arthur Street
Lot 4, DP 252228
Local
I1420
Surry Hills
Terrace houses including interiors
20–22 Arthur Street
Lots 5 and 6, DP 252228
Local
I1421
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
21–31 Arthur Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 799784; Lot 1, DP 732843; Lot 1, DP 86511; Lot 1, DP 709810; Lot 1, DP 794760
Local
I1422
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
1–13 Belvoir Street
Lots 1–7, DP 215628
Local
I1423
Surry Hills
“Prospect House” including interior
1 Blackburn Street
Lot 1, DP 62389
Local
I1424
Surry Hills
Shop and residence group including interiors
304–312 Bourke Street
Lots 11–15, DP 260070
Local
I1425
Surry Hills
“Brewongle Flats” and “Pogs Car Laundry” including interiors
342–344 Bourke Street
Lots 101 and 102, DP 836947 (SP 45974, SP 45975)
Local
I1426
Surry Hills
Former Surry Hills Academy and Seminary facades
346 Bourke Street (and 4–6 Short Street)
Lots 1–3, DP 1014001 (SP 63097)
Local
I1427
Surry Hills
Former Wesleyan Chapel facade
348A Bourke Street
Lot 1517, DP 593680
State
I1428
Surry Hills
Beresford Hotel (excluding late extension) including interior
354–358 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 534067; Lot 1, DP 76270
Local
I1429
Surry Hills
Flat building “Belgenny” including interior
389–393 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 66117; Lot 1, DP 65992; Lot 1, DP 78138 (SP 13644)
Local
I1430
Surry Hills
Flat building “Kingsgate” including interior
397–405 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 58255 (SP 44208)
Local
I1431
Surry Hills
Pelican Hotel including interior
409–411 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 80729
Local
I1432
Surry Hills
Former St Sophia & Her Three Daughters Congregational Church, church and school hall including interiors
411A Bourke Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 770316
State
I1433
Surry Hills
Terrace house “Strathmore” including interior
413 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 828010
Local
I1434
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
415 Bourke Street
Lot 2, DP 828010
Local
I1435
Surry Hills
Hopetoun Hotel including interior
416 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 66700
Local
I1436
Surry Hills
Former St Margaret’s Chapel including interior
423 Bourke Street
Lot 3, DP 1063190
Local
I1437
Surry Hills
Former St Margaret’s Hospital building including interior
437–441 Bourke Street
Lots 2, 3 and 5, DP 1063190 (SP 72040)
Local
I1438
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
512–518 Bourke Street
Lot 101, DP 629713; Lot 1, DP 935269; Lot 1, DP 924961; Lot 1, DP 923832
Local
I1439
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
520–534 Bourke Street
Lots 4–11, DP 236539
Local
I1440
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
536–540 Bourke Street
Lots 1–3, DP 236539
Local
I1441
Surry Hills
Corner shop/residence and attached terrace including interiors
542–544 Bourke Street
Lots A and B, DP 438017
Local
I1442
Surry Hills
Corner shop and residence group including interiors
545–545A Bourke Street
Lots 2 and 3, DP 547760
Local
I1443
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
546–554 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 749236; Lots B–E, DP 437615
Local
I1444
Surry Hills
Corner shop and residence including interiors
561 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 226494
Local
I1445
Surry Hills
Carrington Hotel including interior
563–565 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 75194
Local
I1446
Surry Hills
Former warehouse (56 Rainford Street) including interior (excluding front terrace house)
579 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 69915
Local
I1447
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
581–593 Bourke Street
Lot C, DP 444092; Lots D–H, DP 32867; Lot 1, DP 509539; Lot A, DP 442717
Local
I1448
Surry Hills
Bourke Street Public School buildings including interiors, entrances, fences and ground
590–614 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 724171; Lots 1–2, DP 123011; Lot 1, DP 122997
Local
I1449
Surry Hills
Former corner shop and residence including interiors
595–595A Bourke Street
Lots A and B, DP 447199
Local
I1450
Surry Hills
House including interior
618A Bourke Street
Lot B, DP 442284
Local
I1451
Surry Hills
Holy Trinity Greek Orthodox Church buildings including interiors
626–630 Bourke Street
Lots 7–9, Section 1, DP 314
Local
I1452
Surry Hills
Former stables (1 Ridge Street) including interior
632–634 Bourke Street
Lots 1–1A, Section 2, DP 314
Local
I1453
Surry Hills
Former police station buildings including interior
701–703 Bourke Street
Lot 703, DP 792614
Local
I1454
Surry Hills
Former warehouse (142–148 Goulburn Street) including interior
21 Brisbane Street
Lot 10, DP 1064416 (SP 73236)
Local
I1455
Surry Hills
Former 20th Century Fox Film Corporation Building including interior
43–51 Brisbane Street
Lot B, DP 190326
Local
I1456
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
16–28 Buckingham Street
Lots B and C, DP 107667; Lot 1, DP 604946; Lot 1, DP 732836; Lot 1, DP 770726; Lot 1, DP 1040430; Lot 10, DP 1098218 (SP 77194)
Local
I1457
Surry Hills
Terrace houses including interiors
30–30A Buckingham Street
Lot 1, DP 1030727; Lot 78, DP 1060696
Local
I1458
Surry Hills
Terrace houses including interiors
32–34 Buckingham Street
Lot 1, Section 6, DP 996683; Lot 1, DP 65157
Local
I1459
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
36–42 Buckingham Street
Lots 36 and 37, DP 617444; Lot 1, DP 609730; Lot B, DP 447473
Local
I1460
Surry Hills
Terrace houses including interiors
46–48 Buckingham Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 550581
Local
I1461
Surry Hills
“Cleveland House” including interior and surrounding grounds
51 Buckingham Street
Lot 1, DP 788696
State
I1462
Surry Hills
Belvoir Street Baptist Church including interiors
86 Buckingham Street
Lot 1, DP 792082
Local
I1463
Surry Hills
“Pembroke Terrace” including interiors
91–101 Buckingham Street
Lots 23, 24, 26 and 27, DP 215628; Lot 1, DP 748558
Local
I1464
Surry Hills
“Cleveland Terrace” including interiors
108–116 and 120 Buckingham Street
Lots A and D–G, DP 442103; Lot 1, DP 662014
Local
I1465
Surry Hills
“Norman Gibson & Co” including interior
69 Campbell Street
Lot 100, DP 737104
Local
I1466
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
82–102 Campbell Street
Lot 12, DP 228524; Lots 2–10, DP 222653; Lot 1, DP 1045953 (SP 68473)
Local
I1467
Surry Hills
Terrace group (8–28 Denham Street) stone houses including interiors
175–189 Campbell Street
Lot 12, DP 860698 (SP 53787)
Local
I1468
Surry Hills
Dental Hospital including interior
2–18 Chalmers Street
Lot 1, DP 1079279; Lot 1, DP 773285
Local
I1469
Surry Hills
Former “Metro Goldwyn Mayer” including interior
20–28 Chalmers Street
Lot 2, DP 1079279
Local
I1470
Surry Hills
Royal Exhibition Hotel including interior
86–92 Chalmers Street
Lot 2, DP 223096
Local
I1471
Surry Hills
Former “Railways Institute” building including fence and interior
101 Chalmers Street
Lot 2, DP 804113
State
I1472
Surry Hills
“Australian Metalworkers” (126–128 Chalmers Street) including interior
126–140 Chalmers Street
Lot 100, DP 836645
Local
I1473
Surry Hills
Welsh Presbyterian Church including fence and interior
142–144 Chalmers Street
Lot 1, DP 826023
Local
I1474
Surry Hills
Terrace house “Ravenswood” including interior
166 Chalmers Street
Lot 7, DP 999821
Local
I1475
Surry Hills
Greek Orthodox Church group buildings landscaping, fence and grounds including interiors
242 Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 235433
Local
I1476
Surry Hills
Former Cleveland Street Public School, buildings including interiors, grounds and fence plinth
244 Cleveland Street
Lot 8, DP 821649; Lot 1, DP 797483; Lot 1, DP 797484
Local
I1477
Surry Hills
Former “Matis Pharmacy” including interior
380 Cleveland Street
Lot 3, DP 618947
Local
I1478
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
396–398 Cleveland Street
Lot 1, DP 171331
Local
I1479
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
1–5 Clifton Reserve
Lots 1–5, DP 247171
Local
I1480
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
2 Collins Street
Lot 1, DP 65703
Local
I1481
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
6–18 Collins Street
Lot A, DP 84292; Lot 1, DP 538932; Lot 1, DP 448801; Lot 1, DP 737547; Lot 1, DP 111605; Lots 2 and 3, DP 861502
Local
I1482
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
15–33 Collins Street
Lots 1–10, DP 775627
Local
I1483
Surry Hills
Former “Paramount Pictures” including interior
78–80 Commonwealth Street
Lot A, DP 190326
Local
I1484
Surry Hills
Warehouse “Berman House” including interior
106–112 Commonwealth Street
Lot 1, DP 187127
Local
I1485
Surry Hills
Evening Star Hotel facade
8 Cooper Street and 360–370 Elizabeth Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 1017532 (SP 63860)
Local
I1486
Surry Hills
Former Prince of Wales Hotel including interior
33–35 Cooper Street
Lot 1, DP 105449
Local
I1487
Surry Hills
Former “Reader’s Digest” building including interior and landscaping
71–111 Cooper Street
Lot 1, DP 538633
Local
I1488
Surry Hills
Remnant sandstone wall
265–271 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 834220 (SP 61888)
Local
I1489
Surry Hills
Crown Street Reservoir and site, buildings, fence, ground and substructure, including interior
285A Crown Street (and 224A Riley Street)
Lots 1 and 2, DP 1106583
State
I1490
Surry Hills
Terrace houses including interiors
299–301 Crown Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 549262
Local
I1491
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
303–309 Crown Street
Lots A and B, DP 108709; Lots 1 and 2, DP 205035
Local
I1492
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
311 Crown Street
Lot 3, DP 976543
Local
I1493
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
313–317 Crown Street
Lot 4, DP 654263; Lots 1 and 2, DP 836107
Local
I1494
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
319 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 735596
Local
I1495
Surry Hills
Former Oriental Hotel including interior
320 Crown Street
Lot A, DP 187457
Local
I1496
Surry Hills
House (335 Crown Street) including interior
335–349 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 68401
Local
I1497
Surry Hills
Former Crown Street Women’s Hospital including interior
351 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 826122
Local
I1498
Surry Hills
Cottage including interior and front stairs
352 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 783774
Local
I1499
Surry Hills
Crown Street Public School group buildings, front terraces, fence and grounds including interiors
356 Crown Street
Lot 2, DP 54079
State
I1500
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
358–362 Crown Street
Lots A–C, DP 436259
Local
I1501
Surry Hills
Former Fullerton Memorial Church group buildings and fence including interiors
388–396 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 446936; Lot 23, DP 976166
Local
I1502
Surry Hills
Former shop and residence including interior
397 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 135645
Local
I1503
Surry Hills
Dolphin Hotel (412–414 Crown Street) including interior
412–416 Crown Street
Lot 10, DP 1092675
Local
I1504
Surry Hills
Shop and residence including interiors
423 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 924943
Local
I1505
Surry Hills
Clock Hotel including interior
470–474 Crown Street
Lots 1–3, DP 60920
Local
I1506
Surry Hills
Shop and residence group including interiors
499–503 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 730630; Lots 1 and 2, DP 219703
Local
I1507
Surry Hills
Former Hotel Victoria including interior
505 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 67083
Local
I1508
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
514–524 Crown Street
Lots A–F, DP 437200
Local
I1509
Surry Hills
Former Premier Picture Theatre including interior
525–525A Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 179490
Local
I1510
Surry Hills
Shop and residence including interiors
527 Crown Street
Lot 8, DP 715997
Local
I1511
Surry Hills
Corner shop and residence including interiors
536 Crown Street
Lot F, DP 438393
Local
I1512
Surry Hills
Former Surry Hills Post Office facade and portico
543 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 1068831
Local
I1513
Surry Hills
“St Clair Flats” including interior
594–596 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 873833
Local
I1514
Surry Hills
Terrace houses including interiors
636–638 Crown Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 223088
Local
I1515
Surry Hills
Society of Friends (Quaker) Meeting House including fence and interior
119–123 Devonshire Street
Lot 1, DP 986635
Local
I1516
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
125–129 Devonshire Street
Lots 103–105, DP 619019
Local
I1517
Surry Hills
Former Clarendon Hotel including interior
156–158 Devonshire Street
Lot A, DP 190382
Local
I1518
Surry Hills
Shakespeare Hotel including interior
198–200 Devonshire Street
Lot 1, DP 67497
Local
I1519
Surry Hills
St Peter’s Roman Catholic Church group buildings and fence
235–241 Devonshire Street
Lot 10, DP 653463
Local
I1520
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
242 Devonshire Street
Lot 1, DP 63869
Local
I1521
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
244 Devonshire Street
Lot 1, DP 135765
Local
I1522
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
252–264 Devonshire Street
Lots 1–7, DP 442540
Local
I1523
Surry Hills
Former Edward Hill & Co factory including interiors
268–274 Devonshire Street
Lots 2–5, DP 6533
Local
I2264
Surry Hills
Terrace group (9–15 Pawley Street) including interiors
2–8 Edgely Street
Lot 61, DP 874023
Local
I1524
Surry Hills
Terrace group (2–6 Edgely Street) including interiors
2–8 Edgely Street
Lot 61, DP 874023
Local
I1525
Surry Hills
Terrace group (8–10 Edgely Street) including interiors
2–10 Edgely Street
Lots 61 and 62, DP 874023
Local
I1526
Surry Hills
Terrace house (12 Edgely Street) including interior
12–16 Edgely Street
Lot 63, DP 874023
Local
I1527
Surry Hills
Terrace group (14–14A Edgely Street) including interiors
12–16 Edgely Street
Lot 63, DP 874023
Local
I1528
Surry Hills
Terrace group (16–20 Edgely Street) including interiors
12–20 Edgely Street
Lots 63–65, DP 874023
Local
I1529
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
22–24 Edgely Street
Lots 66 and 67, DP 874023
Local
I1530
Surry Hills
Newmarket Hotel including interior
198–200 Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 942554
Local
I1531
Surry Hills
Sign and supporting structure “Sharpies Golf House” sign
216–220 Elizabeth Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 63553
State
I1532
Surry Hills
“Hibernian House” including interior
328–344 Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 89004; Lots 1 and 2, DP 983966
Local
I1533
Surry Hills
Former ANZ Bank including interior
420–422 Elizabeth Street
Lot 3, DP 75833
Local
I1534
Surry Hills
Strawberry Hills Hotel including interior
451–455 Elizabeth Street
Lot 78, DP 131325
Local
I1535
Surry Hills
Terrace house (457 Elizabeth Street) including interior
457–459 Elizabeth Street
Lot 6, DP 916558
Local
I1536
Surry Hills
Corner Terrace house (459 Elizabeth Street) including interior
457–459 Elizabeth Street
Lot 5, Section 8, DP 939724
Local
I1537
Surry Hills
Former WC Penfold & Co factory including interiors
470–484 Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 714086; Lots 1 and 2, DP 710157
Local
I2265
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
557–565 Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 75533
Local
I1538
Surry Hills
Electricity Substation No 229 including interiors
5 Fitzroy Place
Lot 1, DP 180105
Local
I2266
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interior
46–48 Fitzroy Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 440505
Local
I1539
Surry Hills
Cricketer’s Arms Hotel including interior
106–108 Fitzroy Street
Lot 1, DP 88543
Local
I1540
Surry Hills
Former Commonwealth Bank including interior
1–5 Flinders Street
Lot 1, DP 725585
Local
I1541
Surry Hills
Electrical substation
79 Flinders Street
Lot 1, DP 958298; Lot 2, DP 615753
Local
I1542
Surry Hills
St Michael’s Anglican Church group buildings including interior and grounds and fence
81 Flinders Street
Lot 1, DP 958298; Lot 1, DP 584238
Local
I1543
Surry Hills
Hollywood Hotel including interior
2 Foster Street
Lot 1, DP 550510; Lot 1, DP 561671
Local
I1544
Surry Hills
Warehouse “Edwards & Co” including interior
56–60 Foster Street
Lot 13, DP 870519 (SP 51722, SP 54326)
Local
I1545
Surry Hills
Former Farleigh Nettheim & Co Ltd warehouse including interiors
1–15 Foveaux Street
Lots 1–5, Section U, DP 111211; Lot 6, DP 1021336
Local
I2267
Surry Hills
Former warehouse “General Merchants” including interior
2–12 Foveaux Street
Lot 1, DP 87863
Local
I1546
Surry Hills
Kay Bee Hotel including interior
26 Foveaux Street
Lot A, DP 71490
Local
I1547
Surry Hills
Former “Schweppes Building” including interior
63 Foveaux Street
Lot 20, DP 1068167 (SP 72747, SP 77354)
Local
I1548
Surry Hills
Excelsior Hotel including interior
64 Foveaux Street
Lot 2, DP 76479; Lot 1, DP 60435
Local
I1549
Surry Hills
Former “Schweppes Building” (65–67 Foveaux Street) including interior
65–67 Foveaux Street
Lot 3, DP 413945; Lot A, DP 413946
Local
I1550
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
98 Foveaux Street
Lot 2, DP 809292
Local
I1551
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
134–142 Foveaux Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 84229; Lots A and B, DP 442627; Lot 1, DP 996326
Local
I1552
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
17–21 Goodchap Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 198391; Lot 1, DP 528027
Local
I1553
Surry Hills
Former warehouse facades “Mark Foys”
133 Goulburn Street
Lot 100, DP 1006294 (SP 61162, SP 66961)
Local
I1554
Surry Hills
Convent of our Lady of Mercy buildings including interiors
27 High Holborn Street
Lot 1, DP 1112748; Lot 1, DP 724018
Local
I1555
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
32–52 High Holborn Street
Lots A–G and J–L, DP 33086; Lot H, DP 37252
Local
I1556
Surry Hills
Cottage including interior
39 High Holborn Street
Lot 1, DP 709892
Local
I1557
Surry Hills
Semi detached houses including interiors
41–43 High Holborn Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 448933
Local
I1558
Surry Hills
Cottage including interior
49 High Holborn Street
Lot A, DP 442246
Local
I1559
Surry Hills
“Durham Hall” including interior, front fence and surrounding garden
5–13 Hutchinson Street
Lot 1, DP 630079 (SP 20659)
State
I1560
Surry Hills
Commercial building including interior
29–41 Hutchinson Street
Lot B, DP 356688
Local
I1561
Surry Hills
“Electrical Trades Union Hall” including interior
36–38 Hutchinson Street
Lot 1, DP 873703 (SP 56179)
Local
I1562
Surry Hills
Former “News Limited” including interior
61–81 Kippax Street
Lot B, DP 964341
Local
I1563
Surry Hills
Former Ford Sherington Trunk Factory including interior
119–127 Kippax Street
Lot 11, DP 582591
Local
I1563A
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
30 MacKey Street
Lot 3, DP 91433
Local
I1564
Surry Hills
Terrace houses including interiors
32–34 MacKey Street
Lot 4, DP 913662; Lot 1, DP 741094
Local
I1565
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
36 MacKey Street
Lot 1, DP 783316
Local
I1566
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
40 MacKey Street
Lot C, DP 439679
Local
I1567
Surry Hills
Former David Jones factory including internal structure
47–97 Marlborough Street
Lot 1, DP 225393
Local
I2268
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
8–14 Marshall Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 108111; Lots 1 and 2, DP 34130
Local
I1568
Surry Hills
Former Allington Stoveworks factory including interiors
13–15 Marshall Street
Lot 5, DP 58; Lot 1, DP 179857
Local
I2269
Surry Hills
Former Sydney City Mission Headquarters including interior
2–6 Mary Street
Lot 1, DP 727378
Local
I1569
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
8–16 Mary Street
Lots A–E, DP 108215
Local
I1570
Surry Hills
Chinese Masonic Hall including interior
18 Mary Street
Lot 1, DP 80415
Local
I1571
Surry Hills
Former “Silknit House” including interior
23–33 Mary Street (and 37 Reservoir Street)
Lots 2 and 4, DP 1097847
Local
I1572
Surry Hills
Former “Tooheys Offices” including interior
72–82 Mary Street
Lots 2–8, Section I, DP 111211
Local
I1573
Surry Hills
Warehouse including interior
84–86 Mary Street
Lots 9–19, Section I, DP 111211
Local
I1574
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
1–23 McElhone Place
Lots 3–14, DP 108111
Local
I1575
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
2–20 McElhone Place
Lot 12, DP 600501; Lot B, DP 436855; Lots 5–12, DP 34130
Local
I1576
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
22–28 McElhone Place
Lots 13–15, DP 34130; Lot C, DP 436855
Local
I1577
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
6–12 Nickson Street
Lots 3–6, DP 250228
Local
I1578
Surry Hills
Terrace houses including interiors
37–39 Nickson Street
Lots 11 and 12, DP 845047
Local
I1579
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
20 Norton Street
Lot 1, DP 226105
Local
I1580
Surry Hills
Former ANZ Bank including interior
21 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 113752
Local
I1581
Surry Hills
Former “Lowes” including interior
31–33 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 57645; Lot 1, DP 59126; Lot 332, DP 1125399; Lot 331, DP 1124214
Local
I1582
Surry Hills
Former Commonwealth Bank including interior
37–41 Oxford Street
Lot 1, DP 79320
Local
I1583
Surry Hills
Commercial building including interior
7–9 Patterson Lane
Lot 1, DP 942646
Local
I1584
Surry Hills
Former RC Henderson Ltd factory including interiors
11–13 Randle Street
Lot 1, DP 538913
Local
I2270
Surry Hills
Warehouse including interior
74–80 Reservoir Street
Lot 100, DP 880680 (SP 57988)
Local
I1585
Surry Hills
Former corner shop and terrace group including interiors
118–124 Reservoir Street
Lots A–D, DP 106851
Local
I1586
Surry Hills
Former Morning Star Hotel including interior
133–135 Reservoir Street
Lot 101, DP 874097
Local
I1587
Surry Hills
Terrace house “Carlisle” including interior
143 Reservoir Street
Lot A, DP 913668
Local
I1588
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
145 Reservoir Street
Lot 1, DP 521721
Local
I1589
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
147 Reservoir Street
Lot 1, DP 135786
Local
I1590
Surry Hills
Warehouse including interior
28 Richards Avenue
Lot 2, DP 591396
Local
I1591
Surry Hills
Warehouse including interior
35 Richards Avenue
Lot 2, DP 3575
Local
I1592
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
238–250A Riley Street
Lots 1–8, DP 1058027
Local
I1593
Surry Hills
Former Reservoir Hotel including interiors
263–265 Riley Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 784379
Local
I1594
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
267 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 90275
Local
I1595
Surry Hills
O’Hears Stairs and handrail
Riley Street
Lot 23, DP 1010780
Local
I1596
Surry Hills
Forresters Hotel (336–338 Riley Street) including interior
332–338 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 67365; Lot 1, DP 809292
Local
I1597
Surry Hills
Cottage and terrace group including interiors
342–344 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 87988; Lot 1, DP 1041415
Local
I1598
Surry Hills
Shop and residence including interiors
346 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 136479
Local
I1599
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
348 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 136480
Local
I1600
Surry Hills
Terrace houses including interiors
350–352 Riley Street
Lots A and B, DP 439211
Local
I1601
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
351 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 585638
Local
I1602
Surry Hills
Terrace group “Corbens Terrace” including interiors
353–361 Riley Street
Lots 1–5, DP 438698
Local
I1603
Surry Hills
Terrace houses including interiors
354–356 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 88421; Lot 1, DP 135752
Local
I1604
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
358–360 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 591030; Lot 2, DP 572000
Local
I1605
Surry Hills
Shop and residence including interiors
362 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 572000
Local
I1606
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
363–367 Riley Street
Lot 6, DP 438698; Lots 1 and 2, DP 219477
Local
I1607
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
364 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 229772
Local
I1608
Surry Hills
Terrace houses including interiors
366–368 Riley Street
Lots 2 and 3, DP 229772
Local
I1609
Surry Hills
Cottage ground level
370 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 91094
Local
I1610
Surry Hills
Terrace house facade
371 Riley Street
Lot B, DP 155766
Local
I1611
Surry Hills
Former Riley Street Public School group buildings and brick fence including interiors
376–386 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 597824
Local
I1613
Surry Hills
Former Mountview Hotel including interior
381–381A Riley Street
Lot 43, DP 838368 (SP 46717)
Local
I1614
Surry Hills
Shop and residence including interiors
383 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 1043674
Local
I1615
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
385 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 745635
Local
I1616
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
387–391 Riley Street
Lots A–C, DP 437451
Local
I1617
Surry Hills
Corner shop and residence including interiors
399 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 721718
Local
I1618
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
399A Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 135948
Local
I1619
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
401–411 Riley Street
Lots 1–6, DP 210026
Local
I1620
Surry Hills
Former “The Boys & Girls Brigade” including interior
402–404 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 60010
Local
I1621
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
406–416 Riley Street
Lots C–F, DP 105439; Lots A and B, DP 435021
Local
I1622
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
413 Riley Street
Lot 7, DP 210026
Local
I1623
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
415 Riley Street
Lot 100, DP 1080047 (SP 74615)
Local
I1624
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
417 Riley Street
Lot 2, DP 860124
Local
I1625
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
418–428 Riley Street
Lots 1 and 4, DP 152935; Lot 1, DP 710901; Lot 1, DP 711636; Lot 1, DP 783525; Lot 1, DP 135630
Local
I1626
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
419–423 Riley Street
Lots 1–3, DP 34189
Local
I1627
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
425–431 Riley Street
Lots 4–7, DP 34189
Local
I1628
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
430–434 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 199298; Lot 1, DP 82212; Lot 1, DP 770267
Local
I1629
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
433–441 Riley Street
Lots 8–12, DP 34189
Local
I1630
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
455 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 779664
Local
I1631
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
457 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 745487
Local
I1632
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
459 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 136041
Local
I1633
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
461 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 779469
Local
I1634
Surry Hills
Former Salvation Army Women’s Hostel
471 South Dowling Street
Lot 1, DP 76004 (SP 19232)
Local
I1635
Surry Hills
Terrace houses including interiors
493–495 South Dowling Street
Lots 11 and 12, DP 612642
Local
I1636
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
501–503 South Dowling Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 507777
Local
I1637
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
553–561 South Dowling Street
Lots 5–10, DP 230096
Local
I1638
Surry Hills
“Wyee Terrace” including interiors
563–579 South Dowling Street
Lots 1–5, DP 247954 (SP 13614, SP 13613, SP 13612, SP 13615); Lots 1–4, DP 442669 (SP 13616, SP 31467)
Local
I1639
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
633 South Dowling Street
Lot 17, Section 4, DP 314
Local
I1640
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
635–641 South Dowling Street
Lot 1, DP 181429; Lot 1, DP 650586; Lot 1, DP 908990; Lot 2, DP 900329
Local
I1641
Surry Hills
Terrace houses including interiors
643–645 South Dowling Street
Lot 1, DP 1066736; Lots 1 and 6, Section 3, DP 314
Local
I1642
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
647 South Dowling Street
Lot 1, DP 983645
Local
I1643
Surry Hills
Terrace house including interior
649 South Dowling Street
Lot 2, DP 983645
Local
I1644
Surry Hills
Terrace house “Kinkora” including interior
651 South Dowling Street
Lot 1, DP 983644
Local
I1645
Surry Hills
Terrace group including interiors
663–669 South Dowling Street
Lots A–D, DP 110491
Local
I1646
Surry Hills
Former warehouse group including interiors
4–34 Wentworth Avenue
Lots 42–57, DP 6534
Local
I2271
Surry Hills
Macquarie Hotel including interior
40–44 Wentworth Avenue
Lot 1, DP 1031245
Local
I1647
Surry Hills
“Griffith’s Building” including interior
46–52 Wentworth Avenue
Lots 27–38, DP 6380
Local
I1648
Surry Hills
“Ballarat House”
68–72 Wentworth Avenue
Lot 2, DP 536654; Lot 19, DP 6380
Local
I1649
Surry Hills
“Gordon House” building facades and external walls
74–78 Wentworth Avenue
Lot 18, DP 6380
Local
I1650
Surry Hills
“Sheffield House” including interior
80–84 Wentworth Avenue
Lot A, DP 107367
Local
I1651
Sydney
Cook & Phillip Park including “Earth Mother” play sculpture
 	
Lots 4–8, DP 873273; Lots 31–33, DP 1007439; Lot 1, DP 1000281
Local
I1655
Sydney
Royal Botanic Gardens
 	
Lot 25, DP 39586
State
I1652
Sydney
Tank Stream including tanks and tunnels
 	
Lot 4, DP 787934; Lots 5 and 6, DP 2885; Lot 1, DP 63968; Lot 23, Section 37, DP 80763 (SP 6119); Lots A and B, DP 109825; Lot 1, DP 113509; Lots 1 and 2, DP 225060; Lot 1, DP 544167; Lot 1, DP 597691; Lot 1, DP 628553; Lot 1, DP 630190; Lot 4, DP 787934; Lots 1 and 3, DP 850895 (SP 50276, SP 60441, SP 61007, SP 62889, SP 69300, SP 77409); Lot 11, DP 881681; Lots 11–14, DP 1010601 (SP 62223); Lots 10 and 11, DP 1027838; Lots 1–3, DP 1039996 (SP 67754, SP 70031, SP 72093, SP 71292, SP 72095, SP 73815, SP 74424, SP 71295, SP 75133, SP 77582, SP 79698); Lot 7002, DP 1057990; Lot 7006, DP 1120394
State
I1656
Sydney
The Domain
 	
Lots 26, 27 and 32–35, DP 39586; Lot 1824, DP 41390; Lot 51, DP 47732; Lot 7007, DP 93650; Lot 100, DP 129570; Lot 36, DP 259026; Lot 5, DP 259027; Lot 1, DP 512335; Lot 101, DP 854472
State
I1653
Sydney
Abercrombie Lane
Abercrombie Lane
 	
Local
I1657
Sydney
Albion Place
Albion Place
 	
Local
I1658
Sydney
Former warehouse group including interiors, hoist machinery (Nos 1 and 5), chimney and catheads
1–7 Albion Place
Lot 1, DP 60642
Local
I1659*
Sydney
Circular Quay Railway Station including interior
2 Alfred Street
Lot 2, DP 787935
State
I1660
Sydney
Former Customs House including interior
31 Alfred Street
Lot 23, Section 103, DP 984172
State
I1661*
Sydney
“AMP Building” including interior
33 Alfred Street
Lot 1, DP 1073376
Local
I1662*
Sydney
Angel Place
Angel Place
 	
Local
I1663
Sydney
The Domain Lodge including interiors
Art Gallery Road
Lot 101, DP 854472
State
I1664*
Sydney
Art Gallery of NSW including interiors (many parts)
2B Art Gallery Road
Lot 102, DP 854472
Local
I1665*
Sydney
Ash Street
Ash Street
 	
Local
I1666
Sydney
Commercial building including interiors
1 Barrack Street
Lot 2, DP 608601
Local
I1667*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors and cart dock
2–6 Barrack Street
Lot 1, DP 842212 (SP 48653, SP 56502)
State
I1668*
Sydney
Former Savings Bank of NSW including interiors
11 Barrack Street
Lot 8, DP 70476
Local
I1669*
Sydney
Commercial building including interior
93 Bathurst Street
Lot 1, DP 66734
Local
I1670*
Sydney
Former “Bible House” including interior and two lightwells
95 Bathurst Street
Lot 1, DP 172795
Local
I1671*
Sydney
Former “Sydney Water” building (339–341 Pitt Street) including interiors and lightwell
115–119 Bathurst Street
Lot 1, DP 621404
State
I1672*
Sydney
Richard Johnson Square including monument and plinth
Bligh Street
 	
Local
I1673
Sydney
Wentworth Hotel including interiors
2 Bligh Street (and 61–101 Phillip Street)
Lots 1 and 2, DP 1084537
Local
I1674*
Sydney
Former “City Mutual Life Assurance” building including interiors
10 Bligh Street
Lot 1, DP 1084599 (SP 76907, SP 78709, SP 79260)
State
I1675*
Sydney
Former “NSW Club” building including interiors
31 Bligh Street
Lot 1, DP 587198
State
I1676*
Sydney
Bridge Lane
Bridge Lane
 	
Local
I1677
Sydney
Commercial building “Cliveden” including interiors
4 Bridge Street
Lot 1, DP 900220 (SP 22784)
Local
I1678*
Sydney
Former “Burns Philp & Co” building including interior
5–11 Bridge Street
Lot 100, DP 876814 (SP 57011)
State
I1679*
Sydney
Former “Northumberland Insurance” building including interiors
6 Bridge Street
Lot 1, DP 227365 (SP 67311)
Local
I1680*
Sydney
Former “Liner House” building including interiors and Douglas Annand Mural Screen
13–15A Bridge Street
Lot 1, DP 77314; Lot 1, DP 117300
State
I1681*
Sydney
Former “Scottish House” including interiors
17–19 Bridge Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 112117 (SP 20038)
Local
I1682*
Sydney
Former “Department of Lands” building including interior
23–33 Bridge Street
Lot 1877, DP 877000
State
I1683*
Sydney
Department of Education building including interior
35–39 Bridge Street
Lot 56, DP 729620
State
I1684*
Sydney
First Government House site including Museum of Sydney, archaeology and “Edge of the Trees” artwork
41 Bridge Street
Lot 101, DP 834054
State
I1685
Sydney
Former “Booth House” including interiors
44 Bridge Street
Lot 5, DP 614377 (SP 17759)
Local
I1686*
Sydney
Bulletin Place
Bulletin Place
 	
Local
I1687
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors
6–8 Bulletin Place
Lot B, DP 110204
State
I1688*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors
10–14 Bulletin Place
Lot 3, DP 109096
State
I1689*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors
16–18 Bulletin Place
Lot 4, DP 109096
State
I1690*
Sydney
Former “Shell House” including interior
2–12 Carrington Street
Lot 10, DP 595978
Local
I1691*
Sydney
Former “Lisgar House” including interiors
30–32 Carrington Street
Lot 1, DP 719725 (SP 42724, SP 47839)
Local
I1692*
Sydney
Former Metropolitan “Usher’s” Hotel including interiors
64–68 Castlereagh Street
Lot 2, DP 984182 (SP 22232, SP 22944, SP 77886)
Local
I1693*
Sydney
Former “Culwulla Chambers” including interiors
65–71 Castlereagh Street
Lot 1, DP 87181 (SP 21574, SP 22417, SP 30430, SP 55268, SP 56340, SP 56762)
Local
I1694*
Sydney
Commercial building facade (162 Pitt Street)
77–83A Castlereagh Street
Lot 10, DP 775619
Local
I1695
Sydney
Former “Bank of NSW” facade (164–166 Pitt Street)
77–83A Castlereagh Street
Lot 10, DP 775619
Local
I1696
Sydney
“David Jones Department Store” including interior
84–110 Castlereagh Street
Lot 1, DP 34666; Lot 1, DP 74609
Local
I1697*
Sydney
Former “Legion House” including interiors
161–163 Castlereagh Street
Lot 1, DP 86187
Local
I1698*
Sydney
Community building “Masonic Club” including interior
169–173 Castlereagh Street
Lot 1, DP 68635
Local
I1699*
Sydney
Former “CENEF House” including interiors
201 Castlereagh Street
Lot 1, DP 64604
Local
I1700*
Sydney
St George’s Church including interior and forecourt
201A Castlereagh Street
Lot 3, DP 984180
Local
I1701*
Sydney
“Porter House” including interior
203 Castlereagh Street
Lot 1, DP 799594
Local
I1702*
Sydney
Metropolitan Fire Brigade building including interior and central yard
211–217 Castlereagh Street
Lot 13, DP 60488; Lot 1, DP 547459
Local
I1703*
Sydney
Former City South Telephone Exchange including interior
219–227 Castlereagh Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 1066859
Local
I1704*
Sydney
Former “Worker’s Building” including interiors and lightwell
238–240 Castlereagh Street
Lot 1, DP 187103
Local
I1705*
Sydney
Former “American Tobacco Co” warehouse facade
267–277 Castlereagh Street
Lot 1, DP 620730 (SP 78425, SP 40414, SP 77216)
Local
I1706
Sydney
Sydney Masonic Centre building podium, including the following—
(a)  interiors,
(b)  Mona Hessing artwork.
279–283 Castlereagh Street
Lot 1, DP 1067328
Local
I2283*
Sydney
Central Local Courthouse and Holding Cells including interiors, forecourt and central yard
7 Central Street (and 98 Liverpool Street)
Lots 1 and 2, DP 844093
State
I1707*
Sydney
Chifley Square
Chifley Square
Lot 1, DP 870244
Local
I1708
Sydney
Cast iron railings
Circular Quay
Lot 4, DP 787934
Local
I1709
Sydney
Cast iron railings
Circular Quay East
Lots 2 and 3, DP 787933; Lot 11, DP 847490
Local
I1710
Sydney
Former Harbour Warden’s Post and Public Lavatory including interior
Circular Quay East
Lot 5, DP 787933; Lot 1, DP 775925
Local
I1711*
Sydney
Sydney Opera House including forecourt, seawall, platforms and interiors
Circular Quay East
Lot 5, DP 775888; Lot 4, DP 787933
World
I1712*
Sydney
Former “John Sands” building including interiors
62 Clarence Street
Lot 1, DP 78723
Local
I1713*
Sydney
Former warehouse “Gardiner & Co.” including interiors
104–118 Clarence Street
Lot 1, DP 78983 (SP 17719, SP 30376); Lot 6, DP 84049
Local
I1714*
Sydney
Commercial building including interior
105A Clarence Street
Lot 102, DP 626245
Local
I1715*
Sydney
Former Noyes Bros warehouse including interiors
115 Clarence Street
Lot 1, DP 85252
Local
I2272*
Sydney
Former Edwards Dunlop & Co warehouses including interiors
123–129 Clarence Street (and 252–258 Kent Street)
Lot 1, DP 58120; Lot 1, DP 69420 (SP 18406)
Local
I2274*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors, cartway and courtyard
152–156 Clarence Street
Lot 100, DP 731373
Local
I1716*
Sydney
Former “Hoffnung & Co” warehouse including interiors
153–159 Clarence Street
Lot 1, DP 109722
State
I1717*
Sydney
Former “Broughton House” warehouse including interior
177–181 Clarence Street
Lot 1, DP 522846 (SP 16651)
Local
I1718*
Sydney
Former Electrical substation No. 164 including interior
183 Clarence Street
Lot 1, DP 168428
Local
I1719*
Sydney
Former Shelley warehouse including interiors
185 Clarence Street
Lot 2, DP 168428
Local
I2273*
Sydney
Shorter House including interiors
193–195 Clarence Street
Lot 1, DP 55298; Lot 1, DP 71333
Local
I2275*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors
197–199 Clarence Street
Lots B and C, DP 438976
Local
I1720*
Sydney
Former warehouse group including interiors (201–207) and courtyard (201–203)
201–207 Clarence Street
Lots 1–3, DP 33215
Local
I1721*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interior and remnants of the Freemasons Hall
204–206 Clarence Street
Lot 10, DP 863974
Local
I1722*
Sydney
Former warehouse facade and external walls
222 Clarence Street
Lot 1, DP 60367; Lot 6, DP 64913; Lot 6, DP 66544
Local
I1723
Sydney
Former “Trafalgar Square” warehouse including interiors
230 Clarence Street
Lot 501, DP 793602
Local
I1724*
Sydney
Hotel Sweeney’s including interior
236 Clarence Street
Lot 1, DP 70535
Local
I1725*
Sydney
Former police station including interiors and central lightwell
281 Clarence Street
Lot 3, DP 123554
State
I1726*
Sydney
Former warehouse “Nelson House” including interiors and rear yard
283–285 Clarence Street
Lot 2, DP 66550
Local
I1727*
Sydney
Former warehouse building including interiors
287–289 Clarence Street
Lot 1, DP 634689
Local
I1728*
Sydney
Edward VII statue
Conservatorium Road
Lot 10, DP 779598
Local
I1729
Sydney
Conservatorium of Music including interior and grounds
1 Conservatorium Road
Lot 19, DP 752057; Lot 1, DP 832310
Local
I1730*
Sydney
Customs House Lane
Customs House Lane
 	
Local
I1731
Sydney
Douglass Lane
Douglass Lane
 	
Local
I1732
Sydney
Bicentennial Plaza including monuments
Druitt Street
 	
Local
I1736
Sydney
Former “Central Agency” warehouse including interiors
48–58 Druitt Street
Lot 8, DP 665144
Local
I1734*
Sydney
Former “Gresham Hotel” including interiors
80 Druitt Street
Lot 1, DP 60727
State
I1735*
Sydney
Municipal sewer vent
Elizabeth Street, corner Bathurst Street
 	
State
I1752
Sydney
Museum Railway Station including interiors
Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 1062685
State
I1743*
Sydney
Flat building including interior
7 Elizabeth Street
Lot 8, DP 984182 (SP 13171, SP 54478)
Local
I1737*
Sydney
Former “GIO” building including interiors
60–70 Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 87319
State
I1738*
Sydney
Supreme Court and old Registry Office building group including interiors, fences and grounds
102 Elizabeth Street
Land in MS 902.3000 Sy and MS 9285.3000 Sy
State
I1739*
Sydney
St James Railway Station including interior
108 Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 1062688
State
I1740*
Sydney
Former tram shelter including interior
110 Elizabeth Street
Land in S402–858
Local
I1741*
Sydney
Hyde Park including north and south park reserves, Archibald Memorial Fountain, Anzac Memorial, Pool of Remembrance, stone perimeter walls and steps, St James Station, Museum Station, Dalley Statue, Oddfellows Memorial, Captain Cook Statue, Frazer Fountain, Fort Macquarie Cannon, Emden Gun, Thornton Obelisk, Sundial, former public toilets, Busby’s Bore Fountain, Sandringham Gardens including memorial gates/pergola, Nagoya Gardens, Chess Board, F J Walker Fountain, John Baptist Fountain, Busby’s Bore and archaeology
110–120 Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 1082647; Lot 7303, DP1167657
Local
I1654
Sydney
Anzac War Memorial including Pool of Reflection, pavements, plantings, flagpoles, staircase, platform, interiors, lightwells, bas reliefs, statues, sculptures and movable heritage (artefacts and memorabilia)
120 Elizabeth Street
Lot 1915, DP 906666
State
I1742*
Sydney
Former “Mark Foys Parking Station” including facades, internal structure and building elements
148–148A Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 851778 (SP 50530); Lot 2, DP 851778 (SP 58458)
Local
I1744
Sydney
“Cyprus Hellene Club” including interior
150–152 Elizabeth Street
Lot 2, DP 881869; Lot 1, DP 33933
National
I1745*
Sydney
“Metters Building” including interior
154–158 Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 925681 (SP 35136, SP 37215, SP 41735, SP 51547, SP 22263)
State
I1746*
Sydney
Crown Hotel including interior
160–162 Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 772931
State
I1747*
Sydney
Former “Manchester Unity” building including interiors
183–187 Elizabeth Street
Lot 185, DP 871183
Local
I1748*
Sydney
Former “Wentworth House” flat building and former warehouse including interiors
184–196 Elizabeth Street
Lot 3, DP 6380
Local
I1749*
Sydney
The Great Synagogue including interior
187A Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 52572
State
I1750*
Sydney
Former “Australian Consolidated Press” facade
189–197 Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 796742; Lot 1, DP 218728
Local
I1751
Sydney
Commercial Terrace group including interiors
42–50 Erskine Street
Lots 11 and 12, DP 1085323
Local
I1754*
Sydney
Former “CW Foley & Co” commercial terrace pair including interiors
52–54 Erskine Street
Lot 13, DP 1085323
Local
I1755*
Sydney
Commercial Terrace group including interiors
62–66A Erskine Street
Lot 15, DP 1085323
Local
I1756*
Sydney
“Watch House Terrace” including interiors
68–80 Erskine Street
Lot 101, DP 626245 (SP 19563)
State
I1757*
Sydney
Former “Watch House” including interiors
82 Erskine Street
Lot 2, Section 58, DP 980176
State
I1758*
Sydney
Palm trees
Farrer Place
Lot 7020, DP 93666
Local
I1759
Sydney
Cast iron urinals
George Street
 	
Local
I1760
Sydney
St Andrew’s Cathedral group including interiors, courtyard spaces and forecourts
George Street
Lot 5, DP 785173
State
I1793*
Sydney
“Sydney Square” plaza
George Street
Lot 1, DP 596863; Lot 1, DP 600413; Lot 5, DP 785173
Local
I1791
Sydney
Ward boundary marker
George Street
Lot 1, DP 596863
Local
I1792
Sydney
Metropolitan Hotel including former terrace (246) and including interiors
244–246 George Street
Lot 1, DP 723689
State
I1761*
Sydney
Former “George Patterson House” including interiors
248–252 George Street
Lot 1, DP 81420; Lot 1, DP 100529
Local
I1762*
Sydney
Former “Telford Trust” building including interiors
261 George Street
Lot 261, DP 1015114 (SP 62822)
Local
I1763*
Sydney
“Australia Square” including tower and plaza buildings, forecourt, plaza and interiors
264–278 George Street (and 87–95 Pitt Street)
Lots 1 and 2, DP 225060
Local
I1764*
Sydney
Former commercial building including interiors
285–287 George Street
Lot 23, DP 59753; Lot 22, DP 56723
Local
I1765*
Sydney
Former Skinners Family Hotel including interiors
296 George Street
Lot 1, DP 438188
State
I1766*
Sydney
Commercial building facades and external walls only
319–321 George Street
Lot 1, DP 59260
Local
I1767
Sydney
Regimental Square
339A George Street
Lot 1, DP 254818
Local
I1768
Sydney
Bank of NSW former head office including interiors
341 George Street
Lots 4–12, Section 1, DP 939718; Lot 1, DP 131112
State
I1769*
Sydney
CBC Bank former head office including interior
343 George Street
Lot 2, DP 771947
State
I1770*
Sydney
Former “Equitable Life Assurance” building including interiors
348–352 George Street
Lot 1, DP 115117
State
I1771*
Sydney
Former Bank of Australasia including interiors
354–360 George Street
Lot 1, DP 123553
State
I1772*
Sydney
Former ES & A Bank including interiors and archaeology (well)
365 George Street
Lot 101, DP 1010007
Local
I1773*
Sydney
Former commercial building including interiors
375–377 George Street
Lot 1, DP 608921 (SP 16120, SP 18166)
Local
I1774*
Sydney
Commercial building including interiors
387 George Street
Lot 1, DP 63232
Local
I1775*
Sydney
Commercial building including interior
389 George Street
Lot 1, DP 53468
Local
I1776*
Sydney
Commercial building facade
395–397 George Street
Lot 1, DP 958647; Lot 1, DP 937202
Local
I1777
Sydney
Former “Ashdown & Co” building including interior
396 George Street
Lot 3, DP 39023
Local
I1778*
Sydney
Former “Sydney Arcade” facade (97–103 King Street)
400 George Street
Lot 100, DP 789171
Local
I1779
Sydney
Commercial building “Strand Arcade” including interior and lightwells
412–414A George Street
Lot 1, DP 580910
State
I1780*
Sydney
Commonwealth Bank including interiors and sculptural relief and sculpture
423–427 George Street (corner of Market Street)
Lot 4648, DP 669119
Local
I1781*
Sydney
Commercial building “Dymocks” including interiors
424–430 George Street
Lots 101–103, DP 456820
Local
I1782*
Sydney
Queen Victoria Building including interior
429–481 George Street
Lot 1, DP 811077
State
I1783*
Sydney
Former Crystal Hotel facade (432–434 George Street)
432–450 George Street
Lot 1, DP 1047949
Local
I1784
Sydney
Former “Farmer & Co” department store facade (436–450 George Street)
432–450 George Street
Lot 1, DP 1047949
Local
I1785
Sydney
(74 Market Street) Former “Farmer & Co” department store facade
432–450 George Street
Lots 1–2, DP 1047949
Local
I1786
Sydney
Former “Way Building” facade and awning (213–219 Pitt Street)
432–450 George Street
Lot 1, DP 1047949
Local
I1787
Sydney
Former “Central Pitt” building facade (221–229 Pitt Street)
432–450 George Street
Lot 1, DP 1047949
Local
I1788
Sydney
Former “Gowing Bros” building including interiors
452–456 George Street
Lot 1, DP 667918
Local
I1789*
Sydney
Sydney Town Hall including interior
483 George Street
Lot 1, DP 600413
State
I1790*
Sydney
Former Bank of NSW including interiors
485 George Street
Lot 201, DP 1041307
State
I1794*
Sydney
Former “Vine House” including interiors, cathead, hoists, hoist machinery (roof space), rear yard and gates
531–535 George Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 178974
Local
I1795*
Sydney
Former Sydney County Council building, including the following—
(a)  facade walls and fixtures,
(b)  internal structure,
(c)  ground floor loggia,
(d)  theatrette,
(e)  foyer marble cladding.
552A–570 George Street
Lot 1, DP 231095
Local
I2284*
Sydney
Former “Bank of Australasia” including interior
553–555 George Street
Lot 1, DP 877238
Local
I1796*
Sydney
Sir John Young Hotel including interior
557–559 George Street
Lot 1, DP 131398
Local
I1797*
Sydney
Former “Buckle House” facade, awning and interior
569–581 George Street
Lot 101, DP 1022347 (SP 65111, SP 65785)
Local
I1798
Sydney
Former warehouse facade (8 Central Street)
600–612 George Street (and 343–357 Pitt Street)
Lot 11, DP 835886 (SP 22674, SP 45626); Lot 1, DP 872326 (SP 55792)
Local
I1799
Sydney
Former Plaza Theatre building including facade, external walls, foyer and roof
600–612 George Street
Lot 11, DP 835886 (SP 22674, SP 45626); Lot 1, DP 872326 (SP 55792)
Local
I1800
Sydney
Century Hotel including interior
640–642 George Street
Lot 1, DP 724114
Local
I1801*
Sydney
Former “Sydney Trades Hall” including interiors
4–10 Goulburn Street
Lot 1, DP 1090155
State
I1802*
Sydney
Former Trades Hall Hotel including interior
12–14 Goulburn Street
Lot 1, DP 64754
Local
I1803*
Sydney
German Lutheran Church including interior
90B Goulburn Street
Lot 1, DP 65633
Local
I1804*
Sydney
Former “Goldsmiths Building” including interior
92–96 Goulburn Street
Lots 1–4, DP 553558
Local
I1805*
Sydney
Hamilton Street
Hamilton Street
 	
State
I1806
Sydney
Tank Stream Fountain
Herald Square
 	
Local
I1807
Sydney
“NSW Sports Club” including interiors
10–14 Hunter Street
Lot 1, DP 789940
Local
I1808*
Sydney
“Grand Hotel” including interior
30–32 Hunter Street
Lot 1, DP 81535
State
I1809*
Sydney
Former “Perpetual Trustee” commercial building including interiors
33–39 Hunter Street
Lot 1, DP 187361
State
I1810*
Sydney
Former “Qantas House” including interiors
68–96 Hunter Street
Lot 1, DP 1079705 (SP 74556, SP 76390)
State
I1811*
Sydney
James Lane
James Lane
 	
Local
I1812
Sydney
Former warehouse “Grafton Bond Store” including interiors
201–217 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 813557
State
I1813*
Sydney
Former warehouse “Andrews Bros” including interiors
306 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 1062427
Local
I1814*
Sydney
Former warehouse (332–334 Kent Street) including interiors
332 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 738190
Local
I1815*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interior, cartway and courtyard
332 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 738190
Local
I1816*
Sydney
Former warehouse including cartway, courtyard and interior (formerly 340 Kent Street)
338 Kent Street
Lot A, DP 438976
Local
I1819*
Sydney
Former warehouse facade “The Ambassador”
339–347 Kent Street
Lot 101, DP 860736
Local
I1817
Sydney
City Hotel facade (38 King Street)
339–347 Kent Street
Lot 101, DP 860736
Local
I1818
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors
342–344 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 103254
Local
I1820*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors, cartway, courtyard and interior
346–348 Kent Street
Lot 4, DP 33215
Local
I1821*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors
352–358 Kent Street
Lot 2, DP 901217 (SP 21187)
Local
I1822*
Sydney
Former “Hordern” warehouse including interiors
360–362 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 901217
Local
I1823*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interior and cart docks
364–372 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 57767
Local
I1824*
Sydney
Former warehouse facade (365 Kent Street)
365–377 Kent Street
Lot 100, DP 1010700 (SP 63094)
Local
I1825
Sydney
Former warehouse facade (367–371 Kent Street)
365–377 Kent Street
Lot 100, DP 1010700 (SP 63094)
Local
I1826
Sydney
Former warehouse facade (373–377 Kent Street)
365–377 Kent Street
Lot 100, DP 1010700 (SP 63094)
Local
I1827
Sydney
Former warehouse “Edward Dunlop & Co” including interiors and cart dock
414–418 Kent Street
Lot B, DP 434888; Lot 1, DP 544281
Local
I1828*
Sydney
Former church including interior and front fence
420 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 782342
Local
I1829*
Sydney
Former Grace House warehouse including interiors
426–430 Kent Street
Lot A, DP 939220
Local
I2276*
Sydney
Former warehouse Edward Dunlop & Co including cartway, goods yard and interiors
435A–441 Kent Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 107644; Lot A, DP 438012
Local
I1830*
Sydney
Town Hall House building, including the following—
(a)  facade walls and fixtures,
(b)  structural interiors,
(c)  level 1 paving and foundation stone,
(d)  curved stair to level 2,
(e)  interiors of level 2 southern foyer,
(f)  levels 4 and 6 links to Sydney Town Hall,
(g)  level 4 function rooms, foyers, bathrooms and terraces,
(h)  levels 5–23 bulkheads,
(i)  levels 5, 9 and 11 lobby drinking fountains,
(j)  Marconi sculpture.
456 Kent Street
Part Lot 100, DP1048011
Local
I2285*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors
469–475 Kent Street
Lot C, DP 435519
Local
I1831*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interior
477–481 Kent Street
Lot B, DP 435519
Local
I1832*
Sydney
Former warehouse including former cart dock and interiors
484 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 68620
Local
I1833*
Sydney
Former “Universal Film Manufacturing Co” warehouse including interior and yard
499–501 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 51147; Lot 1, DP 68565; Lot 1, DP 665145
Local
I1834*
Sydney
Former “Judge’s House” including interiors and garden
531 Kent Street
Lot 1, DP 605974
State
I1835*
Sydney
Former warehouse facade
533–539 Kent Street
Lot 101, DP 710105 (SP 22481, SP 33244, SP 40791, SP 42471, SP 46213)
Local
I1836
Sydney
Former warehouse facades
545–553 Kent Street
Lot 31, DP 855390
Local
I1837
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors and cart dock
44 King Street
Lot 1, DP 61553
Local
I1838*
Sydney
Former York Hotel facade
46–52 King Street
Lot 1, DP 73933
Local
I1839
Sydney
Former “ACA” building including interiors
58–68 King Street
Lot 1, DP 523223
Local
I1840*
Sydney
Former warehouse “Reid House” including interiors
69–75 King Street
Lot 21, DP 801935 (SP 36666)
Local
I1841*
Sydney
Commercial building including interiors
104 King Street
Lot 1, DP 548675
Local
I1842*
Sydney
Commercial building including interiors
106 King Street
Lot 11, DP 588128
Local
I1843*
Sydney
Commercial building including interiors
141–147B King Street
Lot 100, DP 1029171 (SP 67212, SP 71884)
Local
I1844*
Sydney
Former Surry Hotel including interiors
153 King Street
Lot 1, DP 78062
Local
I1845*
Sydney
Former “Bank of NSW” including interiors
155–159 King Street
Lot 102, DP 828461 (SP 46528, SP 47697, SP 49274, SP 68306)
State
I1846*
Sydney
St James Church including interior, courtyards, perimeter walls and fences
173 King Street
Lot 1, DP 1022557
State
I1847*
Sydney
Lang Park including plaques, fountain and archaeology
Lang Street
 	
Local
I1848
Sydney
Former warehouse “Buckle Chambers” including interiors
53–55 Liverpool Street (and 1 Douglass Street)
Lot 1, DP 60150; Lot 1, DP 61203; Lot 1, DP 61794; Lot 1, DP 63036; Lot 1, DP 63289; Lot 1, DP 930250
Local
I1733*
Sydney
Commercial terrace group including cartway and interiors
69–79 Liverpool Street
Lots A–E, DP 23162
Local
I1849*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors and lightwell
76–78 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 58575
Local
I1850*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors
88 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 67498
Local
I1851*
Sydney
Brickfield Place
98–112 Liverpool Street
Lot 2, DP 844093; Lots 3 and 4, DP 1112871
Local
I1852
Sydney
Former “Snow’s Emporium” including interiors
127–131 Liverpool Street
Lot 1, DP 57617; Lot 1, DP 68747; Lot 1, DP 69997; Lot 1, DP 780004; Lot 1, DP 185621; Lot 1, DP 780000
Local
I1853
Sydney
Former “Mark Foy’s Emporium” including interiors and forecourt
143–147 Liverpool Street
Lot 21, DP 827813
State
I1854*
Sydney
Former “Barker’s Wool and Produce Stores” including interiors
12–14 Loftus Street
Lot 1, DP 87960
Local
I1855*
Sydney
Macquarie Place including road reserve, park reserve, “Macquarie Obelisk”, “Sirius” anchor and canon, “T S Mort” statue, public conveniences, “Christie Wright” memorial fountain, memorial gate pillars, sandstone fence, and archaeology
Macquarie Place
Lot 1, DP 838060; Lot 1 Section 48, DP 258942; Lot 7048, DP 93668
State
I1856
Sydney
Paragon Hotel facades and interior (27–29 Alfred Street)
1 Macquarie Place
Lot 53, DP 787143
Local
I1857
Sydney
Former Ship Inn facade (10–18 Pitt Street)
1 Macquarie Place
Lot 53, DP 787143
Local
I1858
Sydney
“Kyle House” including interiors
27–31 Macquarie Place
Lot 10, DP 1044710 (SP 68748)
State
I1859*
Sydney
Palm trees
Macquarie Street
Lots 2–9 and 11, DP 859014; Lots 26, 32 and 33, DP 39586; Lot 5, DP 849662
State
I1861
Sydney
Queen’s Square
Macquarie Street
Lots 2 and 3, DP 588101; Lot 3, DP 588101
Local
I1882
Sydney
Steps and rock face “Tarpeian Way”
Macquarie Street
Lot 10, DP 779599
State
I1860
Sydney
Government House including interior, gardens and movable heritage
2A Macquarie Street
Lot 7012, DP 93649
State
I1862*
Sydney
Government House Lodge including interior and entrance gates
4 Macquarie Street
Lot 25, DP 39586
Local
I1863*
Sydney
Parliament House
6 Macquarie Street
Lot 1823, DP 841390; Lot 1, DP 51387
State
I1864*
Sydney
Sydney Hospital group including interiors, courtyards, forecourts and fences
8 Macquarie Street
Lot 1, DP 119264; Lots 101 and 102, DP 129490
Local
I1865*
Sydney
Former Royal Mint Building including interior, forecourt, courtyards, cartway, entrance gates, fence and archaeology, former Police Station building
10 Macquarie Street
Lots 42–44, DP 47116
State
I1866*
Sydney
Former Hyde Park Barracks including forecourt, wall and gatehouses, interiors, grounds, former District Courts and offices and archaeology
12 Macquarie Street
Lots 45–50, DP 47116
World
I1867*
Sydney
“Royal Automobile Club” including interiors
89–91 Macquarie Street
Lot 4, DP 123570; Lots 5–7, DP 758942
State
I1868*
Sydney
Former Department of Health building including interiors
93–97 Macquarie Street
Lot 1, DP 839564
Local
I1869*
Sydney
“Transport House” including interiors
99–113 Macquarie Street
Lot 3, DP 785393
Local
I1870*
Sydney
Former Treasury Building including interiors
115–119 Macquarie Street
Lot 40, DP 41315; Lot 4, DP 785393
State
I1871*
Sydney
Former Chief Secretary’s Building including interiors, courtyard and carriageway
121 Macquarie Street (and 50 Phillip Street)
Crown land in S268 858R, Lots 32–34, DP 984186
State
I1872*
Sydney
Flat building “The Astor” including interiors
123–125 Macquarie Street
Lot 1, DP 1071136
Local
I1873*
Sydney
Terrace house “History House” including interiors
133 Macquarie Street
Lot 1, DP 64691
State
I1874*
Sydney
Commercial building “BMA House” including interior
135–137 Macquarie Street
Lot 17, DP 76335; Lot 18, DP 78095 (SP 14172)
State
I1875*
Sydney
“Royal Australian College of Physicians” terrace house including interior
145 Macquarie Street
Lot 1, DP 548480
Local
I1876*
Sydney
Terrace house “Horbury House” including interior
171–173 Macquarie Street
Lot 6, DP 89692; Lot 1, DP 91202
Local
I1877
Sydney
Commercial Chambers “Wyoming” including interiors
175–181 Macquarie Street
Lot 9, DP 63218; Lot 8, DP 63928; Lot 7, DP 65353; Lot 2, DP 217711
Local
I1878*
Sydney
Commercial Chambers “Hengrove Hall” including interiors
193 Macquarie Street
Lot 121, DP 1027251
Local
I1879*
Sydney
St Stephen’s Uniting Church including interior
197 Macquarie Street
Lot 1, DP 185400
State
I1880*
Sydney
William Bland Centre building, including the following—
(a)  facade walls and fixtures,
(b)  foyers,
(c)  lightwells,
(d)  internal structure.
229–231 Macquarie Street
Lot 1, DP 66747; Lot 1, DP 80727; Lots 1–3, Lots 6–40, Lots 42–66, and Lots 68–90, SP 10041; Lots 91–92, SP 14123; Lot 93, SP 70358; Lots 94–95, SP 86600
Local
I2286*
Sydney
“Beanbah Chambers” including interiors
235 Macquarie Street
Lot 2, DP 66255 (SP 15731)
Local
I1881*
Sydney
Scots Church including interior
42–44 Margaret Street (and 2 York Street)
Lots 10 and 11, DP 1086866 (SP 75520)
Local
I1884*
Sydney
Market Row
Market Row
 	
Local
I1885
Sydney
Former warehouse “Archway Terrace” including interiors
26–32 Market Street
Lots A and B, DP 392745
Local
I1886*
Sydney
State Theatre and former State Shopping Block including interiors
49–51 Market Street
Lot 1, DP 115628
State
I1887*
Sydney
“David Jones Department Store” including interior
65–77 Market Street
Lot 1, DP 538917
Local
I1888*
Sydney
Martin Place
Martin Place
Lot 7005, DP 1120403; Lot 7006, DP 1120394; Lot 1, DP 260232; Lot 2, DP 771109
Local
I1889
Sydney
Former Sydney General Post Office including interior
1 Martin Place
Lot 11, DP 881681
State
I1890*
Sydney
Martin Place Railway Station including interiors
3 Martin Place
Lots 1–3, DP 623821; Lot 10, DP 629101; Lots 1 and 4–6, DP 250060
State
I1891*
Sydney
Commercial building “Challis House” including interior
4–10 Martin Place
Lot 1, DP 931300
State
I1892*
Sydney
Former “Colonial Mutual Life Building” facade
10A–16 Martin Place
Lot 1, DP 571986
Local
I1893
Sydney
MLC Centre complex, including the following—
(a)  tower exterior, internal structure and level 8 vestibule,
(b)  Theatre Royal exterior and interiors,
(c)  Commercial Travellers Association building exterior and interiors,
(d)  King Street cylindrical structure,
(e)  lower and upper plazas (levels 7 and 8),
(f)  plaza building exteriors,
(g)  plaza oculus to level 6,
(h)  levels 6 and 7 Rowe Street through link,
(i)  artworks by Albers, Perry and Owen.
19–35 Martin Place
Lot 1, DP 598704; Lot 5, DP 588399;Lots 1–2, SP 12322; Lot 3, DP 565938; Lot 1, SP 7985; Lots 3–4, SP 10727
Local
I2287*
Sydney
Former “MLC Building” including interior
38–46 Martin Place
Lots 1 and 2, DP 915091; Lot 1, DP 83642
State
I1894*
Sydney
Commonwealth Bank of Australia including interior
48–50 Martin Place
Lot 1, DP 182023
State
I1895*
Sydney
Former Australian Provincial Assurance (APA) Building including interiors
53–63 Martin Place
Lot 53, DP 1070879 (SP 73146)
State
I1896*
Sydney
Reserve Bank including interior
65 Martin Place
Lot 1, DP 444499
Local
I1897*
Sydney
Moore Stairs
Moore Stairs
 	
Local
I1898
Sydney
Mullins Street
Mullins Street
 	
Local
I1899
Sydney
Former “Chatsworth House” facade (1–7 Bent Street)
1–15 O’Connell Street
Lot 1, DP 814858
Local
I1900
Sydney
Former “Orient Building” facade (2–6 Spring Street)
1–15 O’Connell Street
Lot 1, DP 814858
Local
I1901
Sydney
Former “Manufacturers House” including interiors
12–14 O’Connell Street
Lot 1, DP 1066602 (SP 73569, SP 74935, SP 76030, SP 79745)
Local
I1902*
Sydney
Former “Bank of NSW” including interiors
16 O’Connell Street
Lot 1, DP 125121 (SP 55932, SP 64588, SP 71881)
Local
I1903*
Sydney
Former “Rofe Chambers” including interiors
19–21 O’Connell Street
Lot 1, DP 131917
State
I1904*
Sydney
Phillip Lane
Phillip Lane
 	
Local
I1905
Sydney
Justice & Police Museum including interiors and front and rear courtyards
4 Phillip Street
Lots 18–23, Section 105, DP 758942
State
I1906*
Sydney
Terrace pair including interiors
39–41 Phillip Street
Lot 104, DP 836610
State
I1907*
Sydney
Terrace house including interior
43 Phillip Street
Lot 104, DP 836610
State
I1908*
Sydney
Terrace house including interior
45 Phillip Street
Lot 104, DP 836610
State
I1909*
Sydney
Terrace house including interior
47 Phillip Street
Lot 104, DP 836610
State
I1910*
Sydney
Former Customs House Hotel facade (17–21 Macquarie Place)
30 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 804285
Local
I1911
Sydney
Former “Sirius House” (23–25 Macquarie Place)
30 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 804285
Local
I1912
Sydney
Former “Coal Exchange Chamber” facade (38–40 Pitt Street)
30 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 804285
Local
I1913
Sydney
Former warehouse “Gerling House” including interiors, cartway and gates
42–44 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 909754
Local
I1914*
Sydney
Former Liverpool & London & Globe building, including the following—
(a)  facade walls and fixtures,
(b)  internal structure.
62 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 129926
Local
I2288*
Sydney
Former Wales House including interiors
64–66 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 108276
State
I1915*
Sydney
Former hotel facade and external walls, former “Exchange Hotel” including facades, external form and building elements
69–73 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 86265
Local
I1916
Sydney
Former “Royal Exchange Assurance Building” including interiors
75–77 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 186488
Local
I1917*
Sydney
Former “Bryant House” including interiors and grounds
80–82A Pitt Street
Lots E–G, DP 9703
Local
I1918*
Sydney
Former “Commonwealth Bank of Australia Building” including interiors and grounds
108–120 Pitt Street
Lot 120, DP 882436
Local
I1919*
Sydney
Former “Millions Club” including interiors
122–122B Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 67172; Lot 2, DP 573094
State
I1920*
Sydney
Former “Angel Hotel” including interiors
125 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 61607
Local
I1921*
Sydney
Former hotel “Trickett’s Hotel” including interiors
138–140 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 67940
State
I1922*
Sydney
Former Australian Mutual Fire Insurance building including interiors
142–144 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 901185
State
I1923*
Sydney
Former “Phoenix Chambers” and Soul Pattinson Store including interior
158–160 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 57459
Local
I1924*
Sydney
Former “Liverpool Arms” hotel including interiors
181 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 121507
Local
I1925*
Sydney
Former “Fay’s Chambers”, exterior only
192–192A Pitt Street
Lot 10, DP 865713; Lot 1, DP 132358
Local
I1926
Sydney
Former “Symonds’ buildings” including interior
194 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 945729
Local
I1927*
Sydney
“City Tattersalls Club” (198–200 Pitt Street) including interior
196–204 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 600465
Local
I1928*
Sydney
“City Tattersalls Club” (202–204 Pitt Street) including interior
196–204 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 600465
Local
I1929*
Sydney
“Banking House” including interior
226–230 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 66194
Local
I1930*
Sydney
“National Building” including interior
248A–250 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 1042711 (SP 68274, SP 74861, SP 75167, SP 75732)
Local
I1931*
Sydney
“Simpson House” including interior
249–251 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 212027
Local
I1932*
Sydney
Criterion Hotel including interior
258–260 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 230025
Local
I1933*
Sydney
The Marble Bar interior
259 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 1087916
Local
I1934
Sydney
“Pilgrim House” including interior
262–264 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 80969
Local
I1935*
Sydney
Pitt Street Uniting Church including interior
264A Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 80969
State
I1936*
Sydney
Former School of Arts including interiors
275 Pitt Street
Lot 111, DP 1014769; Lot 12, DP 1048563
State
I1937*
Sydney
“Lincoln Building” including interior
280–282 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 535299
Local
I1938*
Sydney
Former “Speedwell House” including interiors
284–292 Pitt Street
Lot 11, DP 1048658
Local
I1939*
Sydney
Edinburgh Castle Hotel including interior
294–294B Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 516988
Local
I1940*
Sydney
Former “YMCA” building including interiors
323–331 Pitt Street
Lot 200, DP 1083474
Local
I1941*
Sydney
Former Lismore Hotel facade
343–357 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 872326 (SP 55792)
Local
I1942
Sydney
Former “Snow’s Emporium” including interiors
350–360 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 1087249
Local
I1943*
Sydney
“Fayworth House” including interior
379–383 Pitt Street
Lot 1, DP 853043 (SP 50853)
Local
I1944*
Sydney
Civic Hotel including interior
386–388 Pitt Street
Lots 1–3, DP 1006059
Local
I1945*
Sydney
Frazer Memorial Fountain
Prince Albert Road, corner St Mary’s Road
 	
Local
I1947
Sydney
Former Registrar General’s Department building including interior
1 Prince Albert Road
Lot 1863, DP 1000001; Lot 1864, DP 1000002
State
I1946*
Sydney
Rowe Street
Rowe Street
 	
Local
I1948
Sydney
Shakespeare Place including Shakespeare monument and Bourke Statue
Shakespeare Place
Lots 2–4, 7 and 17–20, DP 859014
Local
I1949
Sydney
State Library of NSW including interiors
1 Shakespeare Place
Lot 7028, DP 1077148
State
I1950*
Sydney
St Mary’s Cathedral and Chapter House group including interiors, grounds and fences
2 St Mary’s Road
Lot 1, DP 119119; Lot 1001, DP 131260; Lots 1–3, DP 782462
State
I1951*
Sydney
Trees and sandstone retaining walls (adjacent Napoleon Street)
Sussex Street
 	
Local
I1952
Sydney
Former “New Hunter River Hotel” including interiors
20–26 Sussex Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 1033719
State
I1953*
Sydney
Former MWS&B pumping station
21–25 Sussex Street
Lot 1, DP 87659; Lot 1, DP 531630
Local
I1954*
Sydney
“Bristol Arms” hotel including interior
81 Sussex Street
Lot 6, DP 707526
State
I1955*
Sydney
Former “Hawken & Vance Produce Exchange” (95–99 Sussex Street) facades and exterior form
95–105 Sussex Street
Lots 7 and 8, DP 707526
State
I1956
Sydney
Former “Cuthbert’s Patent Slip” warehouse including interiors
107–113 Sussex Street
Lot 100, DP 876614
State
I1957*
Sydney
Former “Royal George Hotel” including interiors
115–117 Sussex Street
Lot 100, DP 876614
State
I1958*
Sydney
Former “City Bank of Sydney and Post Office” including interiors
138 Sussex Street
Lot 1, DP 57627
Local
I1959*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors and grounds (29A King Street)
140–152 Sussex Street
Lot 1, DP 777788
Local
I1960*
Sydney
Former “CMC House” facade
160–166 Sussex Street
Lot 1, DP 83716
Local
I1962
Sydney
Former “Foley Bros” warehouse including cartway, courtyard and interiors
230–232 Sussex Street
Lot 7, DP 71092
Local
I1963*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors
281–287 Sussex Street
Lot 1, DP 63907 (SP 17163)
Local
I1964*
Sydney
Former Sussex Street Public School including grounds, fence and interiors
320–334 Sussex Street
Lot 3, DP 650016
Local
I1965*
Sydney
Former “Commerce Building” including interiors and grounds, cartway, courtyard and hoists
345B Sussex Street
Lot 1, DP 124203
Local
I1966*
Sydney
Former “Commerce House” including interiors and courtyard
365–375 Sussex Street
Lot 1, DP 84772 (SP 22569)
Local
I1967*
Sydney
Former “Foley Bros” warehouse group including interiors
374–386 Sussex Street
Lot 1, DP 65641; Lot 1, DP 71091
Local
I1968*
Sydney
Tank Stream Way
Tank Stream Way
 	
Local
I1969
Sydney
Temperance Lane
Temperance Lane
 	
Local
I1970
Sydney
Wynyard Park including parkland, mature trees, remnant fences, underground conveniences and Lang Statue
York Street
 	
Local
I1971
Sydney
St Philip’s Church of England including interior and grounds
3 York Street
Lot 1, DP 239163; Lot 1, DP 1033475
Local
I1972*
Sydney
Former “Pomeroy House” including interiors
14–16 York Street
Lot 9, DP 880073 (SP 58903, SP 63566)
State
I1973*
Sydney
Former “John Solomon” warehouse including interiors and grounds
18–20 York Street
Lot 1, DP 432685
Local
I1974*
Sydney
Former Railway House (part of Transport House) including interiors
11–31 York Street
Lot 1, DP 1003146; Lot 100, DP 1015076
State
I1975*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors (22 York Street)
22–26 York Street
Lot 103, DP 1010007 (SP 62101)
State
I1976*
Sydney
Former warehouses including interiors (24–26 York Street)
22–26 York Street
Lot 103, DP 1010007 (SP 62101)
Local
I1977*
Sydney
Forbes Hotel including interior
30 York Street
Lot 1, DP 88025
Local
I1978*
Sydney
Former warehouse “Carlton House” including interiors, cartway and courtyard
38–44 York Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 60830; Lot 1, DP 66982; Lot 1, DP 635682
Local
I1979*
Sydney
Occidental Hotel including interior
43 York Street
Lot 1, DP 71926
Local
I1980*
Sydney
Former “AWA” Building including interiors and tower
45–47 York Street
Lot 1, DP 826252 (SP 42495, SP 44848, SP 44849, SP 44850, SP 44853, SP 49213)
State
I1981*
Sydney
Former warehouse “Spiden House” including interiors and lightwell
46–48 York Street
Lot A, DP 72012
Local
I1982*
Sydney
Former warehouse “York House” including interiors
50–54 York Street
Lot 1, DP 1010972 (SP 63152)
Local
I1983*
Sydney
Former warehouse “John Frazer & Co” including interiors
63 York Street
Lot 1, DP 57799
Local
I1984*
Sydney
Former “Asbestos House” including interiors
65–69 York Street
Lot 10, DP 1067353 (SP 75031, SP 73850, SP 77521)
Local
I1985*
Sydney
Former “Knock and Kirby” building facade (413–421 George Street)
68 York Street
Lot 1, DP 88513
Local
I1986*
Sydney
Former “Gardiner House” including interiors
71 York Street
Lot 1, DP 80148 (SP 61233)
Local
I1987*
Sydney
Former “Henley House” including interiors
73 York Street
Lot 1, DP 86286
State
I1988*
Sydney
Former “National House” including interiors
75 York Street
Lots 2–3, DP 73933
State
I1989*
Sydney
Former “Grace Building” including interiors
77–79 York Street
Lot 1, DP 109554
State
I1990*
Sydney
Former “Storey & Co” warehouse including interiors and grounds
81 York Street
Lot 1, DP 917438
Local
I1991*
Sydney
Former “Sargood & Co” warehouse including interiors
83–87 York Street
Lot 1, DP 67879
Local
I1992*
Sydney
Former warehouse “Sargood & Co” warehouse including interiors and grounds (144 Clarence Street)
83–87 York Street
Lot 2, DP 65646; Lot 1, DP 67879
Local
I1993*
Sydney
Former warehouse “Frank F Bundock” including interiors
125 York Street
Lot 11, DP 872744
Local
I1994*
Sydney
Former warehouse “Leitch House” including interiors
127–127A York Street
Lot 1, DP 68093
Local
I1995*
Sydney
Former warehouse “W H Friend” including interior
129 York Street
Lot 1, DP 68057
Local
I1996*
Sydney
Former “Taylor Family” warehouse including interiors
141 York Street
Lot 1, DP 64996
Local
I1997*
Sydney
Former warehouse including interiors
143–145 York Street
Lot 1, DP 65322
Local
I1998*
Sydney
Former “Hinchcliff Wool Stores” including interior
5–7 Young Street
Lot 1, DP 104784; Lot 1, DP 723381
State
I1999*
Sydney
Young Street Terraces including interiors
36–42 Young Street
Lot 101, DP 834054
State
I2000*
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
33–39 Ada Place
Lots 68–71, DP 255554
Local
I2001
Ultimo
Semi-detached cottages including interiors
50–52 Ada Place
Lots 30 and 38, DP 255551
Local
I2002
Ultimo
Bay Street Depot former stables and factory buildings, including interiors and Bay Street garages street wall
10–16 Bay Street
Lot 1, DP 81399
Local
I2277
Ultimo
“Bay House” including interior
76–82 Bay Street
Lot 1, DP 1043629
Local
I2003
Ultimo
Commercial building including interior
9–13 Broadway
Lot 1, DP 1079855
Local
I2004
Ultimo
Commercial building (1–7 Broadway) including interior
15–73 Broadway
Lot 2004, DP 1053548
Local
I2005
Ultimo
Commercial building (129 Broadway) including interior
129–135 Broadway
Lot 2, DP 789847
Local
I2007
Ultimo
Former Stonemason Arms Hotel (133–135 Broadway) including interior
129–135 Broadway
Lot 2, DP 789847
Local
I2008
Ultimo
Commercial building including interior
137–145 Broadway
Lot 1, DP 789847
Local
I2009
Ultimo
Commercial building (147–151 Broadway) including interior
147–171 Broadway
Lots 103 and 104, DP 1055800 (SP 71099)
Local
I2010
Ultimo
Former “Bishop’s Stoves” (153–155 Broadway) including interior
147–171 Broadway
Lots 103 and 104, DP 1055800 (SP 71099)
Local
I2011
Ultimo
Commercial building (157–159 Broadway) including interior
147–171 Broadway
Lots 103 and 104, DP 1055800 (SP 71099)
Local
I2012
Ultimo
Commercial building (163 Broadway) including interior
147–171 Broadway
Lots 103 and 104, DP 1055800 (SP 71099)
Local
I2013
Ultimo
Commercial building (165–167 Broadway) including interior
147–171 Broadway
Lots 103 and 104, DP 1055800 (SP 71099)
Local
I2014
Ultimo
Commercial building (169–171 Broadway) including interior
147–171 Broadway
Lots 103 and 104, DP 1055800 (SP 71099)
Local
I2015
Ultimo
Former “Broadway Picture Theatre” including interior
173–179 Broadway
Lot 107, DP 1055800 (SP 75385)
Local
I2016
Ultimo
Former National Bank of Australia including interior
181 Broadway
Lot 1, DP 57894
Local
I2017
Ultimo
Former “Grace Bros Homewares” including interior
185–211 Broadway
Lot 88, DP 863771 (SP 54026, SP 57757, SP 73557)
Local
I2018
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
242–262 Bulwara Road
Lots 72–79, DP 255554; Lots 43–45, DP 255552
Local
I2020
Ultimo
Former St Francis Xavier Church group church/school building and terrace houses, including interiors
247–257 Bulwara Road
Lot 1, DP 818442
Local
I2021
Ultimo
Lord Wolseley Hotel including interior
265 Bulwara Road
Lot 1, DP 66697
Local
I2022
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
286–340 Bulwara Road
Lots 14–26, DP 32294; Lots 1–13, DP 32295; Lots 62–63, DP 32293
Local
I2023
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
342 Bulwara Road and 68–80 Macarthur Street
Lots 54–61, DP 32293
Local
I2024
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
348 Bulwara Road and 68–80 Mary Ann Street
Lots 10–16 and 19, DP 859980
Local
I2025
Ultimo
Former Crown Hotel and terrace group including interiors
363–375 Bulwara Road
Lots 1–6, DP 239225
Local
I2026
Ultimo
Agincourt Hotel including interior
871 George Street
Lot 7, DP 208902
Local
I2027*
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
11–63 Hackett Street
Lots 27–38, DP 32294; Lots 39–44, 46 and 47, DP 32295; Lot 45, DP 27321; Lots 48–53, DP 32293; Lot 1, DP 625549
Local
I2028
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
451–455 Harris Street
Lots 31–33, DP 255551
Local
I2029
Ultimo
Former Ultimo Post Office including interior
494 Harris Street
Lot 1, DP 770031
State
I2030
Ultimo
Powerhouse Museum former warehouse buildings, including interiors
500 Harris Street
Lot 1, DP 631345
Local
I2031
Ultimo
Glasgow Arms Hotel including interior
527–529 Harris Street
Lot 1, DP 733932
Local
I2032
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
578–606 Harris Street
Lots 1–5 and 9–11, DP 234078; Lot 1, DP 709093; Lot 10, DP 749276; Lots 6–8, DP 791341; Lot 1, DP 731661
Local
I2033
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
597–607 Harris Street
Lots 4 and 5, DP 790232; Lots 50–53, DP 827003
Local
I2034
Ultimo
Former “Millinery House” including interior
608–614 Harris Street
Lots 4 and 5, DP 70368
Local
I2035
Ultimo
Former National Cash Register Co, Building including interior
622–632 Harris Street
Lot A, DP 155003
Local
I2036
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
629–637 Harris Street
Lots A and B, DP 447392; Lot 1, DP 719295; Lot 1, DP 1103443
Local
I2037
Ultimo
Commercial building (851–855 George Street) including interior
732 Harris Street
Lot 1, DP 1087479 (SP 79678)
Local
I2038*
Ultimo
Electrical substation including interior
8 Henry Avenue
Lot 1, DP 78555
Local
I2039
Ultimo
Former woolstore facades
89–97 Jones Street (and 330–370 Wattle Street)
Lot 1, DP 809554 (SP 38979, SP 45077, SP 56149); Lot 2, DP 809554 (SP 42936, SP 49783)
Local
I2040
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
111–187 Jones Street
Lot 1, DP 802114; Lots 2–28 and 30–39, DP 913681; Lot 1, DP 580785
Local
I2041
Ultimo
Former “Farmers & Graziers No 2” including interior
492–516 Jones Street
Lot 1, DP 624161
Local
I2042
Ultimo
Terrace houses including interiors
50–52 Macarthur Street
Lot A, DP 72445; Lot 2, DP 72444
Local
I2043
Ultimo
Terrace houses including interiors
77–79 Macarthur Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 828613
Local
I2044
Ultimo
Former School of Mechanical & Automotive Engineering, Sydney Technical College (Building P) including interior
1–17 Mary Ann Street
Lot 1, DP 544256
Local
I2045
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
12–22 Mary Ann Street
Lots 40–45, DP 913681
Local
I2046
Ultimo
Former Sydney Technical College building (Building H including interior)
19 Mary Ann Street
Lot 1, DP 594621
Local
I2047
Ultimo
Former Counselling Building, Sydney Technical College (Building I) including interior
19 Mary Ann Street
Lot 1, DP 594621
Local
I2048
Ultimo
Former Administration Building, Sydney Technical College (Building A) including interior
19 Mary Ann Street
Lot 1, DP 594621
Local
I2049
Ultimo
Former Turner Hall, Sydney Technical College (Building B) including interior, fence, bus shelter and grounds
19 Mary Ann Street
Lot 1, DP 594621
Local
I2050
Ultimo
Former Museum of Applied Arts and Sciences, Sydney Technical College (Building C) including interior
21 Mary Ann Street
Lot 1, DP 594621
Local
I2051
Ultimo
Former Sydney Technical College School of Rural Studies including interior
16–20 Mountain Street
Lot A, DP 361106
Local
I2052
Ultimo
Electrical substation
41 Mountain Street
Lot 1, DP 191928
State
I2053
Ultimo
Warehouse “Wilcox Mofflin Ltd”
46–52 Mountain Street
Lot 3, DP 1057509
Local
I2054
Ultimo
St Barnabas Anglican Church site remnant building components and grounds
57–61 Mountain Street
Lot 3, DP 574478
Local
I2055
Ultimo
Cottage and terrace group including interiors
92–98 Quarry Street
Lot C, DP 715516; Lots 1–3, DP 608555
Local
I2056
Ultimo
Ultimo Uniting Church group buildings and grounds, including interiors
97 Quarry Street
Lot 12, DP 852646
Local
I2057
Ultimo
Terrace houses including interiors
102–104 Quarry Street
Lots 41 and 42, DP 255552
Local
I2058
Ultimo
Former woolstore “Winchcombe Carson” including interior
28–48 Wattle Street
Lot 1, DP 571484
Local
I2059
Ultimo
Former woolstore “ESGM & Co” including interior
50–54 Wattle Street
Lot 1, DP 62297
Local
I2060
Ultimo
Former woolstore “Farmers & Graziers No 1” including interior
372–428 Wattle Street
Lot 100, DP 880315 (SP 57895, SP 58945)
Local
I2061
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
430–444 Wattle Street
Lots 1–8, DP 260374
Local
I2062
Ultimo
Former warehouse “Briscoe & Co” including interior
485–501 Wattle Street
Lot 1, DP 546296
Local
I2063
Ultimo
Vulcan Hotel including interior
494–500 Wattle Street
Lot 12, DP 1106916
Local
I2064
Ultimo
Former woolstore including interior
14–18 William Henry Street
Lot 1, DP 82697
Local
I2065
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
20–36 William Henry Street
Lots 1–9, DP 229755
Local
I2066
Ultimo
Terrace group including interiors
91–97 William Henry Street
Lot 1, DP 136903; Lot 1, DP 195661; Lot 1, DP 995930; Lot 14, DP 785053
Local
I2067
Ultimo
House including interior and fence
103–103A William Henry Street
Lot 1, DP 572026
Local
I2068
Waterloo
Congregational Church including interior
103–105 Botany Road
Lot 30, DP 668991
Local
I2069
Waterloo
Cauliflower Hotel including interior
123 Botany Road
Lot 1, DP 1055976
Local
I2070
Waterloo
Waterloo Public School group buildings including interiors, landscaping and retaining wall
237–271 Botany Road
Lot 1, DP 795228
Local
I2071
Waterloo
Federation warehouse with art deco additions
866–882 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 169870; Lot 1, DP 81572; Lot 1, DP 956385
Local
I2072
Waterloo
Former Sydney Water pumping station and valve house including interiors and associated underground pipework
903–921 Bourke Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 800705
Local
I2073
Waterloo
“Chase Terrace” including interiors
999–1011 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 731669; Lot 1, DP 730736; Lots 1–3, DP 997103; Lot 1, DP 996287; Lot 30, DP 1008022
Local
I2074
Waterloo
Former ACI Grissell Building
10 Broome Street
Lot 56, DP 1038380
Local
I2075
Waterloo
Former ACI remnant machinery
14 Broome Street
Lot 64, DP 1038380
Local
I2076
Waterloo
Former Waterloo Pre-school (225 Cope Street) including interior
225–227 Cope Street
Lot 5, DP 10721
Local
I2077
Waterloo
2-storey Victorian terrace houses (circa 1880)
229–231 Cope Street
Lot 3, DP 10721
Local
I2078
Waterloo
Waterloo Park & Oval including grounds and landscaping
Elizabeth Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 136177; Lot 7, DP 252609
Local
I2079
Waterloo
Part of former William Brooks factory including interiors
723 Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 89479
Local
I2278
Waterloo
Waterloo Town Hall including interior and former air raid shelter
770 Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 997169
Local
I2080
Waterloo
Terrace group including interiors
772–808 Elizabeth Street
Lots 1–19, DP 236978
Local
I2081
Waterloo
Former “Chubb Pty Ltd” including interior
830–838 Elizabeth Street
Lot 2, DP 1014267
Local
I2082
Waterloo
Former Zetland Tram Terminus (874 Elizabeth Street)
862–874 Elizabeth Street
Lot 10, DP 1088980
Local
I2083
Waterloo
Former ACI Chimney Stack
Gadigal Avenue, corner Potter Street
 	
Local
I2084
Waterloo
Duke of Wellington Hotel including interior
291 George Street
Lot 1, DP 71285
Local
I2085
Waterloo
Single-storey Interwar building, Electricity Substation No 174
336 George Street
Lot 3, DP 10686
Local
I2086
Waterloo
Electricity Substation No 75 including interiors
378 George Street
Lot 75, DP 605380
Local
I2279
Waterloo
Terrace group “Gordon Terrace” including interiors
1–25 John Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 713820; Lots 4–7 and 9–13, DP 229389; Lot 8, DP 10680; Lot 1, DP 135984
Local
I2087
Waterloo
Our Lady of Mt Carmel Church and School buildings including interiors and grounds
2–6 Kellick Street
Lot 1, DP 86295
Local
I2088
Waterloo
“Grosvenor Terrace” including interiors
62–116 Morehead Street
Lots 5–32, DP 33245
Local
I2089
Waterloo
Terrace group including interiors
61–75 Phillip Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 15040
Local
I2090
Waterloo
House including interior
81–83 Phillip Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 997188
Local
I2091
Waterloo
Terrace house including interior
101 Phillip Street
Lot 1, DP 73441
Local
I2092
Waterloo
Terrace group including interiors
103–107 Phillip Street
Lots A–C, DP 908895
Local
I2093
Waterloo
Electrical substation including interior
2A Powell Street
Lot 1, DP 610597
Local
I2094
Waterloo
Terrace group including interiors
2–8 Raglan Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 715084; Lot 1, DP 716141; Lot 1, DP 207181
Local
I2095
Waterloo
Terrace group including interiors
10–56 Raglan Street
Lots 2–4 and 6–25, DP 207181; Lot 1, DP 803949
Local
I2096
Waterloo
Uniting Church buildings including interiors and grounds
56A Raglan Street
Lot 1, DP 197174
Local
I2097
Waterloo
Former ACI Administration Building including interior
849 South Dowling Street
Lot 106, DP 1017691 (SP 66426)
Local
I2098
Waterloo
Former ACI AGM Building including interior
851 South Dowling Street
Lot 10, DP 1004914
Local
I2099
Waterloo
Moore Park View Hotel including interior
853–855 South Dowling Street
Lot 1, DP 328069
Local
I2100
Waterloo
Terrace group including interiors
1–27 Wellington Street
Lots 1–14, DP 33704
Local
I2101
Waterloo
Terrace group including interiors
29–39 Wellington Street
Lots B–F, DP 33599; Lot 101, DP 777164
Local
I2102
Waterloo
Terrace Group
122–136 Wellington Street
Lots 1–7, DP 33293; Lot 12, DP 1186738
Local
I2296
Waterloo
Commercial building part of “Federation Business Centre” (222 Young Street) including interior
198–222 Young Street
Lot 1, DP 792863 (SP 36039, SP 36721, SP 37210, SP 64460)
Local
I2103
Waterloo
Electrical substation including interior
241 Young Street
Lot 1, DP 606446
Local
I2104
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group “Bland Terrace” including interiors
14–32 Bland Street
Lots 1–10, DP 108218
Local
I2105
Woolloomooloo
Ward boundary pillar
Bourke Street, corner Plunkett Street
 	
Local
I2126
Woolloomooloo
The Bells Hotel including interior
1–7 Bourke Street
Lots 2–4, DP 173711
Local
I2106
Woolloomooloo
Former Macquarie Hotel including interior
2 Bourke Street
Lots 3–5, Section 2, DP 979402
Local
I2107
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
4–10 Bourke Street
Lots 1–4, DP 593471; Lot 1, DP 45654
Local
I2108
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
9–11 Bourke Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 110640
Local
I2109
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
12–22 Bourke Street
Lots 1–6, DP 440348
Local
I2110
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house including interior
13 Bourke Street
Lot 20, DP 129597
Local
I2111
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
15–21 Bourke Street
Lots A and B, DP 436780; Lot 1, DP 516330; Lot 1, DP 112279
Local
I2112
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house (59 Forbes Street) including interior
58–72 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 73483
Local
I2113
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (61–65 Forbes Street) including interiors
58–72 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 559653
Local
I2114
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house (67 Forbes Street) including interior
58–72 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 559648
Local
I2115
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house (69 Forbes Street) including interior
58–72 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 559649
Local
I2116
Woolloomooloo
Commercial building “Former Dalgety’s” including interior
75 Bourke Street
Lot 10, DP 1031250
Local
I2117
Woolloomooloo
Former hotel and residence including interiors
89 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 74464
Local
I2118
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
120–122 Bourke Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 593261
Local
I2119
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house including interior
129 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 738624
Local
I2120
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
159–161 Bourke Street
Lots D and E, DP 436231
Local
I2121
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
163–167 Bourke Street
Lots A–C, DP 436231
Local
I2122
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house including interior
171 Bourke Street
Lot 2, DP 135330
Local
I2123
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
173–175 Bourke Street
Lots 3 and 4, DP 135330
Local
I2124
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house including interior
177 Bourke Street
Lot 5, DP 135330
Local
I2125
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
141–145 Brougham Street
Lot 10, DP 606153 (SP 14783, SP 64090)
Local
I2127
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (153–155 Brougham Street) including interiors
153–165 Brougham Street
Lot 101, DP 615293 (SP 16624)
Local
I2128
Woolloomooloo
House “Telford Lodge” (157–161 Brougham Street) including interior
153–165 Brougham Street
Lot 101, DP 615293 (SP 16624)
Local
I2129
Woolloomooloo
Calidad Building (163 Brougham Street) including interiors and courtyard
153–165 Brougham Street
Lot 101, DP 615293; Lots 1–10, SP 16624
Local
I2222
Woolloomooloo
Sandstone wall
12 Broughton Street
Lot 5, DP 108229
Local
I2129A
Woolloomooloo
Commercial building “Cathedral Court” including interiors
84–104 Cathedral Street
Lot 101, DP 717204 (SP 34754); Lots 3–10, DP 700584 (SP 31497, SP 31498, SP 68017, SP 31499, SP 31490, SP 3150, SP 31501, SP 31193)
Local
I2130
Woolloomooloo
Corner shop and terrace group including interiors
108–118 Cathedral Street
Lots 1–6, DP 200230
Local
I2131
Woolloomooloo
3 terrace houses (168, 170 and 172–174 Cathedral Street) including interior
168–174 Cathedral Street
Lot 11, DP 559657; Lots 12 and 13, DP 218974
Local
I2132
Woolloomooloo
Former President Lincoln Hotel (174 Cathedral Street) including interior
172–174 Cathedral Street
Lot 14, DP 218974
Local
I2133
Woolloomooloo
Former Woolshed Inn and terrace group including interiors
173–175 Cathedral Street (and 134 Forbes Street)
Lot 1, DP 875963 (SP 60532); Lot 3, DP 209259
Local
I2134
Woolloomooloo
Mathew Talbot Hostel
2 Corfu Street
Lot 1, DP 812445
Local
I2135
Woolloomooloo
Wharves including interiors
6 and 6B–6G Cowper Wharf Roadway
Lots 1–7, DP 1007565 (SP 71494, SP 61619, SP 61618, SP 61771, SP 61770, SP 73154)
State
I2136
Woolloomooloo
Former Navy Gunnery School including interior
43–51 Cowper Wharf Roadway
Lot 1, DP 834179
State
I2137
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group “Bossley Terrace” including interiors and front fencing
2–34 Crown Street
Lots 3–19, DP 204210
Local
I2138
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house including interior
49 Crown Street
Lot 1, DP 501440
Local
I2139
Woolloomooloo
East Sydney Hotel including interior
64–66 Crown Street
Lot, DP 71318
Local
I2140
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
96–100 Crown Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 605524; Lot 7, DP 551534
Local
I2141
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group “Sir Hercules Robinson Terrace” including interiors
102–104 Crown Street
Lot 301, DP 707567; Lot B, DP 442898
Local
I2142
Woolloomooloo
Frisco Hotel including interior
46 Dowling Street
Lot 1, DP 186843
Local
I2143
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house (76 Forbes Street) including interior
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2144
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (84–88 Forbes Street) including interiors
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2145
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (104–108 Forbes Street) including interiors
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2146
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (110–112 Forbes Street) including interiors
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2147
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house (114 Forbes Street) including interior
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2148
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house (116 Forbes Street) including interior
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2149
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house (118 Forbes Street) including interiors
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2150
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (120–122 Forbes Street) including interiors
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2151
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (124–126 Forbes Street) including interiors
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2152
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house (128 Forbes Street) including interior
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2153
Woolloomooloo
Shop and residence (130 Forbes Street) including interiors
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2154
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (11–17 Judge Street) including interiors
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2155
Woolloomooloo
Cottage (19 Judge Street) including interior
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2156
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (23–31 Judge Street) including interiors
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2157
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house (176 Cathedral Street) including interior
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2158
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (67–69 Dowling Street) including interiors
67–121 Dowling Street
Lot 4, DP 866026
Local
I2159
Woolloomooloo
Woolloomooloo Waters Hotel including interior
88 Dowling Street
Lot 10, DP 836192 (SP 46169, SP 75546, SP 80378)
Local
I2160
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (126–128A Dowling Street) including interiors
126–196 Dowling Street
Lot 60, DP 619268
Local
I2161
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (132–154 Dowling Street) including interiors
126–196 Dowling Street
Lot 60, DP 619268
Local
I2162
Woolloomooloo
Fitzroy Hotel including interior
129–131 Dowling Street
Lot 1, DP 65990
Local
I2163
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
133–135 Dowling Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 509147
Local
I2164
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group “Vere de Vere” including interiors
137–143 Dowling Street
Lot 1, DP 929344; Lot 139, DP 928315; Lot 141, DP 928314; Lot 143, DP 928313
Local
I2165
Woolloomooloo
Former warehouse “Cancer Council” including interior
153–161 Dowling Street
Lot 1, DP 812005
Local
I2166
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
167–169 Dowling Street
Lots 100 and 101, DP 621206
Local
I2167
Woolloomooloo
Woolloomooloo Day Nursery including buildings and their interiors and courtyard
198–208 Dowling Street
Lot 1, DP 731559
Local
I2168
Woolloomooloo
Tilbury Hotel including interior
12–18 Forbes Street
Lots 8 and 9, Section 4, DP 979402
Local
I2169
Woolloomooloo
Sewerage pumping station including interior
13 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 830498
Local
I2170
Woolloomooloo
Corner shop and residence (28–30 Forbes Street) including interiors
28–36 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 866026
Local
I2171
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house (32 Forbes Street) including interior
28–36 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 866026
Local
I2172
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house (34 Forbes Street) including interior
28–36 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 866026
Local
I2173
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (10–12 Best Street) including interiors
38–68 Forbes Street
Lot 2, DP 866026
Local
I2174
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (14–16 Best Street) including interiors
38–68 Forbes Street
Lot 2, DP 866026
Local
I2175
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (52–58 Forbes Street) including interiors
38–68 Forbes Street
Lot 2, DP 866026
Local
I2176
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group “Bottomley’s Terrace” (60–66 Forbes Street) including interiors
38–68 Forbes Street
Lot 2, DP 866026
Local
I2177
Woolloomooloo
Former commercial building “Bryson House” including facade and main stairs
150–166 Forbes Street
Lot 1, DP 630661 (SP 20041)
Local
I2178
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
168–172 Forbes Street
Lots 101–103, DP 606980
Local
I2179
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group “Kidman Terrace” including interiors
1–7 Kidmans Terrace
Lot 100, DP 808774; Lot 11, DP 775931; Lots 3–7, DP 259555
Local
I2180
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
52–64 McElhone Street
Lot 102, DP 777524
Local
I2181
Woolloomooloo
St Columbkille Catholic Church including interior
66–68 McElhone Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 782321
Local
I2182
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group (124–128 McElhone Street) including interiors
124–130 McElhone Street
Lots 4 and 5, DP 456681
Local
I2183
Woolloomooloo
Juanita Neilson Recreation Centre including interior
31 Nicholson Street
Lots 1–3, Section 7, DP 979402
Local
I2184
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group “Nicholson Place” including interiors
68–86 Nicholson Street
Lots 11–19, DP 108218
Local
I2185
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
1–3 Rae Place
Lots 2 and 3, DP 439470
Local
I2186
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
2–8 Rae Place
Lots 5–8, DP 438630
Local
I2187
Woolloomooloo
Former Australian Hotel including interior
2–4 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 1010703
Local
I2188
Woolloomooloo
Sandstone wall remnant
19–21 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 74977
Local
I2189
Woolloomooloo
Commercial building “Brandt Bros Ltd” including interior
41 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 779260
Local
I2190
Woolloomooloo
Commercial building “Former Hastings Deering Building” including interior
46–48 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 82820; Lot 1, DP 76024; Lot 1, DP 79987
Local
I2191
Woolloomooloo
Commercial building “Lesseys Garage” including interior
55–61 Riley Street
Lot 1, DP 59178; Lot 1, DP 79998
Local
I2192
Woolloomooloo
Former Merryfield Hotel including interior
2–4 Sir John Young Crescent
Lot 11, DP 1046098
Local
I2193
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
6–8 Sir John Young Crescent
Lot 1, DP 126924; Lot 1, DP 129643
Local
I2194
Woolloomooloo
Terrace house including interior
10 Sir John Young Crescent
Lots A and B, DP 439138
Local
I2195
Woolloomooloo
Former Sydney Eye Hospital including interior
50–58 Sir John Young Crescent
Lot 1, DP 882499
Local
I2196
Woolloomooloo
Hills Stairs including adjoining retaining walls and fencing
Sydney Place
 	
Local
I2197
Woolloomooloo
Commercial building “Peejays Building” including interior
52–58 William Street
Lots 1 and 2, DP 1046917; Lot 1, DP 114669; Lot 1, DP 122904; Lot 1, DP 62717
Local
I2198
Woolloomooloo
William Street Arch including retaining walls
70B William Street
Lot 3, DP 1084085
Local
I2199
Woolloomooloo
Commercial building including interior
132 William Street
Lot 2, DP 171791
Local
I2200
Woolloomooloo
Terrace group including interiors
1–4 Windeyer Street
Lot 1, DP 173367; Lot 1, DP 173477; Lots A and B, DP 434462
Local
I2201
Zetland
Former fire station including interior
932–934 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 74133
Local
I2202
Zetland
Green Square Hotel including interior
936–938 Bourke Street
Lot 1, DP 86712
Local
I2203
Zetland
Terrace house “Alencon” including interior
878 Elizabeth Street
Lot 1, DP 1101537 (SP 77731)
Local
I2204
Zetland
Cottage including interior
934 Elizabeth Street
Lots 5 and 6, Section D, DP 975364
Local
I2205
Zetland
Electrical substation including interior
68–74 Epsom Road
Lot 1, DP 79069
Local
I2206
Zetland
Semi-detached houses including interiors
10–12 Hansard Street
Lot 1, DP 744390; Lot 1, DP 1000465
Local
I2207
Zetland
Cottage including interior
15 Hansard Street
Lot 139, DP 844731
Local
I2208
Zetland
Terrace house including interior
24 Hansard Street
Lots 14 and 15, DP 975367
Local
I2209
Zetland
Horse trough
Joynton Avenue, corner Elizabeth Street
Lot 33, Section D, DP 975364
Local
I2214
Zetland
Street trees in Joynton Avenue between O’Dea Avenue and Gadigal Avenue
Joynton Avenue
 	
Local
I2210
Zetland
Former Victoria Park Racecourse group including former Totalisator building, park and interpretation device
100–106A Joynton Avenue
Lots 7,13 and 14, DP 1016882
Local
I2212
Zetland
Former Joseph Lucas office, stairs and showroom including interiors and building setback
146–158 Joynton Avenue
Lot 11, DP 594967
Local
I2280
Zetland
Semi-detached cottages including interiors
11–13 Merton Street
Lots B and C, DP 908879
Local
I2215
Zetland
“Elsie Terrace” including interiors
2–8 Portman Street
Lots 11–14, DP 1045057
Local
I2216
Zetland
“Ada Terrace” including interiors
13–19 Portman Street
Lots 1–4, DP 217134
Local
I2217
Zetland
Terrace group including interiors
65–69 Portman Street
Lots 1–3, DP 234407
Local
I2218
Zetland
Terrace group including interiors
71–75 Portman Street
Lots 4–6, DP 234407
Local
I2219
Zetland
Cottage including interior
37 Tilford Street
Lots 41 and 42, Section D, DP 975364
Local
I2220
Note—
In this Part, where one or more lots in one or more deposited plans (the preceding Lot/DP description) are followed immediately or otherwise by a strata plan number or numbers in brackets, the preceding Lot/DP description may be the prior title reference of the heritage item, which may now comprise a lot or lots or common property (or both a lot or lots and common property) in a strata scheme.
Part 2 Heritage conservation areas
Note—
Heritage conservation areas are shown on the Heritage Map by a red outline with red hatching and labelled with the relevant map reference number.
Suburb
Name of heritage conservation area
Significance
Map reference
Alexandria
Alexandria Park
Local
C1
Alexandria
Cooper Estate
Local
C2
Alexandria
North Alexandria Industrial
Local
C74
Alexandria/Beaconsfield
William Street Industrial
Local
C75
Alexandria/Erskineville
Kingsclear Road
Local
C3
Beaconsfield
Hillview Estate
Local
C4
Camperdown
University of Sydney
Local
C5
Centennial Park
Furber Road
Local
C6
Centennial Park
Lang Road
Local
C7
Centennial Park
Martin Road
Local
C8
Chippendale
Chippendale
Local
C9
Chippendale/Darlington
Darling Nursery Estate
Local
C10
Darlinghurst
Barcom Avenue
Local
C11
Darlinghurst
East Sydney
Local
C13
Darlinghurst
Oxford Street and Victoria Street
Local
C12
Darlinghurst
Rosebank
Local
C14
Darlinghurst
Ryder Street
Local
C15
Darlinghurst
William Street South
Local
C16
Darlinghurst/Surry Hills
Oxford Street
Local
C17
Darlington/Newtown
Golden Grove
Local
C18
Darlington/Redfern
Darlington
Local
C19
Elizabeth Bay/Rushcutters Bay
Elizabeth and Rushcutters Bays
Local
C20
Erskineville
Burren Estate
Local
C21
Erskineville
Erskineville Estate
Local
C22
Erskineville
Former Macdonaldtown Estate
Local
C23
Erskineville
Malcolm Estate
Local
C24
Erskineville
Pleasant Avenue
Local
C25
Erskineville
Toogood & White’s Estate
Local
C26
Glebe
Bishopthorpe
Local
C27
Glebe
Glebe Point
Local
C28
Glebe
Glebe Point Road
Local
C29
Glebe
Hughes
Local
C30
Glebe
Lyndhurst
Local
C31
Glebe
St Phillips
Local
C32
Glebe/Forest lodge
Hereford and Forest Lodge
Local
C33
Glebe/Forest Lodge
Toxteth
Local
C34
Millers Point/Dawes Point
Millers Point
State
C35
Moore Park
Moore Park
Local
C36
Moore Park
Sydney Cricket Ground
Local
C37
Newtown
Bligh and Camperdown Terrace
Local
C38
Newtown
Bucknell Street
Local
C39
Newtown
Gowrie Street
Local
C40
Newtown
Hollis Park
Local
C41
Newtown
Newman and Gibbes Streets
Local
C42
Newtown
O’Connell Town Estate
Local
C43
Newtown
Pines Estate
Local
C44
Newtown
Queen Street
Local
C45
Newtown
Union Street West
Local
C46
Newtown/Erskineville
King Street
Local
C47
Paddington
Paddington South
Local
C48
Paddington
Victoria Barracks
Local
C49
Paddington/Darlinghurst
Paddington Urban
Local
C50
Potts Point/Elizabeth Bay
Potts Point
Local
C51
Pyrmont
Pyrmont
Local
C52
Redfern
Baptist Street
Local
C53
Redfern
Chelsea and Thurlow Streets
Local
C54
Redfern
Cooper Street
Local
C55
Redfern
Redfern Estate
Local
C56
Redfern
Rennie and Mount Streets
Local
C57
Surry Hills
Albion Estate
Local
C58
Surry Hills
Bourke Street North
Local
C59
Surry Hills
Bourke Street South
Local
C60
Surry Hills
Brumby Street
Local
C61
Surry Hills
Cleveland Gardens
Local
C62
Surry Hills
Goodlet Street
Local
C63
Surry Hills
High Holborn Street
Local
C64
Surry Hills
Little Riley Street
Local
C65
Surry Hills
Reservoir Street and Fosterville
Local
C66
Ultimo
Harris Street
Local
C67
Ultimo
Mountain Street
Local
C68
Ultimo
Ultimo
Local
C69
Waterloo
Waterloo
Local
C70
Woolloomooloo
Woolloomooloo
Local
C71
Zetland
Hansard Street
Local
C72
Zetland/Waterloo
Zetland Estate
Local
C73
Schedule 6 Pond-based and tank-based aquaculture
(Clause 5.19)
Part 1 Pond-based and tank-based aquaculture
Division 1 Site location requirements
1   Conservation exclusion zones
(1)  Must not be carried out on the following land, except to the extent necessary to gain access to water—
(a)  land declared an area of outstanding biodiversity value under the Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016,
(b)  vacant Crown land,
(c)  land within a wetland of international significance declared under the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands.
(2)  Must not be carried out on the following land, except for the purposes of minimal infrastructure to support the extraction of water from, and discharge of water to, the land concerned—
(a)  land declared as an aquatic reserve under the Marine Estate Management Act 2014,
(b)  land declared as a marine park under the Marine Estate Management Act 2014.
Note—
Nothing in this clause affects any requirement under an Act relating to land specified in this clause to obtain a licence or other authority under that Act for development of the land.
Division 2 Operational requirements
2   Species selection
Species of fish or marine vegetation cultivated or kept must be consistent with the relevant aquaculture industry development plan (within the meaning of clause 5.19).
3   Pond-based aquaculture that is also intensive aquaculture—pond design
For pond-based aquaculture that is also intensive aquaculture—ponds must be capable of being drained or pumped and then completely dried.
4   Pond-based aquaculture and tank-based aquaculture that is also intensive aquaculture—freshwater discharges
For pond-based aquaculture and tank-based aquaculture that is also intensive aquaculture—no discharge of freshwater used to intensively cultivate or keep fish to natural waterbodies or wetlands is permitted, except freshwater discharge from open flow through systems.
5   Outlets from culture ponds etc
All outlets from culture ponds, tanks and other culture facilities must be screened to avoid the escape of fish.
6   Definition
In this Division—
intensive aquaculture has the same meaning as it has in the Fisheries Management (Aquaculture) Regulation 2017.
Part 2 Extensive pond-based aquaculture
Division 1 Site location requirements
7   Conservation exclusion zones
(1)  Must not be carried out on the following land, except to the extent necessary to gain access to water—
(a)  land declared an area of outstanding biodiversity value under the Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016,
(b)  vacant Crown land,
(c)  land within a wetland of international significance declared under the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands.
Note—
Nothing in this clause affects any requirement under an Act relating to land specified in this clause to obtain a licence or other authority under that Act for development of the land.
8   Flood liability
Must be designed or constructed on land so that it will not be inundated by the discharge of a 1:100 ARI (average recurrent interval) flood event.
Division 2 Operational requirements
9   Species selection
Species of fish or marine vegetation cultivated or kept must be consistent with the relevant aquaculture industry development plan (within the meaning of clause 5.19).
10   Pond design
(1)  Must not require the construction of new ponds, water storages, dams or buildings.
(2)  Must not be located on permanent watercourses, creeks, billabongs or isolated outreaches of creeks or rivers.
(3)  Must be capable of preventing the escape of stock into natural waterbodies or wetlands.
11   Culture water
Must use freshwater.
Schedule 6A Sun access planes
clause 6.17
Part 1 Interpretation
1   Description of sun access planes
In this Schedule, each sun access plane is described in one of the following ways—
(a)  the sun access plane extends in a strip to the edge of the land to which this Plan applies ascending as one moves back from the front of the plane, where the front of the plane is a line between two specified points (X and Y) and the sides of the plane extend towards the sky from those points along a specified horizontal bearing (B) and vertical angle (V),
(b)  the sun access plane extends from a point (X) with the sides of the triangular plane extending towards the sky from the point along two rays, where ray 1 is given by specified horizontal bearing (B1) and vertical angle (V1) and ray 2 is given by specified horizontal bearing (B2) and vertical angle (V2).
2   Measurement of sun access planes
In this Schedule—
(a)  coordinates are Map Grid of Australia 2020 coordinates, and
(b)  horizontal bearings are measured from true north, and
(c)  vertical angles are measured above horizontal, and
(d)  heights (RLs) are on the Australian Height Datum (AHD) in metres.
Part 2 Belmore Park sun access planes
Note—
This Part describes points approximately 35m above the western side of Pitt Street from Barlow Street to Hay Street, approximately 25m above the northern side of Hay Street from Pitt Street to Castlereagh Street and approximately 10m above the eastern side of Belmore Park.
3   Belmore Park 1A sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334113.2E, 6249583.6N, RL44.5.
(2)  B1 is 282.25 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 60.44 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 310.49 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 44.16 degrees.
4   Belmore Park 1B sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334113.2E, 6249583.6N, RL44.5.
(2)  B1 is 310.49 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 44.16 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 328.63 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 25.69 degrees.
5   Belmore Park 1C sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334113.2E, 6249583.6N, RL44.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334139.5E, 6249625.8N, RL43.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
6   Belmore Park 1D sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334139.5E, 6249625.8N, RL43.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334158.3E, 6249712.3N, RL41.5.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
7   Belmore Park 1E sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334158.3E, 6249712.3N, RL31.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334315.0E, 6249678.6N, RL34.34.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
8   Belmore Park 1F sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334315.0E, 6249678.6N, RL34.34.
(2)  B1 is 328.63 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 25.69 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 359.16 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 32.72 degrees.
9   Belmore Park 1G sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334315.0E, 6249678.6N, RL34.34.
(2)  B1 is 359.16 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 32.72 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 29.98 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 26.34 degrees.
10   Belmore Park 1H sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334315.0E, 6249678.6N, RL19.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334262.4E, 6249435.9N, RL22.5.
(3)  B1 is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V1 is 26.34 degrees.
11   Belmore Park 1I sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334262.4E, 6249435.9N, RL22.5.
(2)  B1 is 29.98 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 26.34 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 46.60 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 45.48 degrees.
12   Belmore Park 1J sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334262.4E, 6249435.9N, RL22.5.
(2)  B1 is 46.60 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 45.68 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 74.55 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 63.21 degrees.
Part 3 Harmony Park sun access planes
Note—
This Part describes points approximately 20m above the western side of Brisbane Street from Hunt Street to Goulburn Street, approximately 45m above the northern side of Goulburn Street from Brisbane Street to Pelican Street and up to approximately 7m above the eastern side of Harmony Park.
13   Harmony Park 2A sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334554.3E, 6249755.6N, RL47.0.
(2)  B1 is 282.25 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 60.44 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 310.49 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 44.16 degrees.
14   Harmony Park 2B sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334554.3E, 6249755.6N, RL47.0.
(2)  B1 is 310.49 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 44.16 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 328.63 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 25.69 degrees.
15   Harmony Park 2C sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334554.3E, 6249755.6N, RL47.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334601.4E, 6249782.4N, RL46.5.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
16   Harmony Park 2D sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334601.4E, 6249782.4N, RL46.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334610.7E, 6249844.3N, RL43.5.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
17   Harmony Park 2E sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334610.7E, 6249844.3N, RL43.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334628.4E, 6249859.8N, RL43.5.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
18   Harmony Park 2F sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334628.4E, 6249859.8N, RL43.5.
(2)  B1 is 328.63 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 25.69 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 359.16 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 32.72 degrees.
19   Harmony Park 2G sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334628.4E, 6249859.8N, RL68.5.
(2)  B1 is 359.16 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 32.72 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 29.98 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 26.34 degrees.
20   Harmony Park 2H sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334628.4E, 6249859.8N, RL68.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334695.7E, 6249820.2N, RL73.0.
(3)  B is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V is 26.34 degrees.
21   Harmony Park 2I sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334695.7E, 6249820.2N, RL73.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334714.3E, 6249811.7N, RL74.5.
(3)  B is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V is 26.34 degrees.
22   Harmony Park 2J sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334714.3E, 6249811.7N, RL74.5.
(2)  B1 is 29.98 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 26.34 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 46.60 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 45.48 degrees.
23   Harmony Park 2K sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334714.3E, 6249811.7N, RL74.5.
(2)  B1 is 46.60 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 45.48 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 74.55 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 63.21 degrees.
24   Harmony Park 2L sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334648.8E, 6249686.1N, RL34.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334670.1E, 6249811.9N, RL34.0.
(3)  B is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V is 26.34 degrees.
25   Harmony Park 2M sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334648.8E, 6249686.1N, RL34.0.
(2)  B1 is 46.60 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 45.48 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 29.98 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 26.34 degrees.
26   Harmony Park 2N sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334648.8E, 6249686.1N, RL34.0.
(2)  B1 is 74.55 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 63.21 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 46.60 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 45.48 degrees.
Part 4 Hyde Park sun access planes
Note—
This Part describes points approximately 45m above the western side of Elizabeth Street from Liverpool Street to St James Road, approximately 23m above the northern side of St James Road from Elizabeth Street to Macquarie Street, approximately 23m above the northern side of Prince Albert Road from Macquarie Street to St Marys Road, approximately 24m above the eastern side of College Street from St Marys Road to Stanley Street and approximately 45m above the eastern side of College Street from Stanley Street to Liverpool Street.
27   Hyde Park 3A sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334649.2E, 6250861.3N, RL54.5.
(2)  B1 is 359.16 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 32.72 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 29.98 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 26.34 degrees.
28   Hyde Park 3B sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334649.2E, 6250861.3N, RL54.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334727.0E, 6250752.8N, RL43.0.
(3)  B is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V is 26.34 degrees.
29   Hyde Park 3C sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334727.0E, 6250752.8N, RL43.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334678.6E, 6250218.3N, RL45.0.
(3)  B is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V is 26.34 degrees.
30   Hyde Park 3D sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334678.6E, 6250218.3N, RL76.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334664.8E, 6250218.3N, RL79.5.
(3)  B is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V is 26.34 degrees.
31   Hyde Park 3E sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334664.8E, 6250066.6N, RL79.5.
(2)  B1 is 29.98 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 26.34 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 46.60 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 45.48 degrees.
32   Hyde Park 3F sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334664.8E, 6250066.6N, RL79.5.
(2)  B1 is 46.60 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 45.48 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 74.55 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 63.21 degrees.
33   Hyde Park 3G sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334649.2E, 6250861.3N, RL54.5.
(2)  B1 is 328.63 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 25.69 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 359.16 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 32.72 degrees.
34   Hyde Park 3H sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334606.4E, 6250865.5N, RL54.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334649.2E, 6250861.3N, RL54.5.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
35   Hyde Park 3I sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334521.4E, 6250843.0N, RL50.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334606.4E, 6250865.5N, RL54.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
36   Hyde Park 3J sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334450.0E, 6250804.7N, RL47.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334521.4E, 6250843.0N, RL50.5.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
37   Hyde Park 3K sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334417.9E, 6250437.6N, RL71.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334450.0E, 6250804.7N, RL69.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
38   Hyde Park 3L sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334385.7E, 6250064.8N, RL70.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334417.9E, 6250437.6N, RL71.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
39   Hyde Park 3M sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334385.7E, 6250064.8N, RL70.0.
(2)  B1 is 310.49 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 44.16 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 328.63 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 25.69 degrees.
40   Hyde Park 3N sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334385.7E, 6250064.8N, RL70.0.
(2)  B1 is 282.25 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 60.44 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 310.49 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 44.16 degrees.
Part 5 Lang Park sun access planes
Note—
This Part describes points approximately 9m above the western side of York Street from Jamison Street to Grosvenor Street, approximately 15m above the northern side of Grosvenor Street from York Street to Gloucester Street and between approximately 5–14m above the northern side of Grosvenor Street from Gloucester Street to Lang Street.
41   Lang Park 4A sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333996.5E, 6251452.6N, RL35.0.
(2)  B1 is 282.25 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 60.44 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 310.49 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 44.16 degrees.
42   Lang Park 4B sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333996.5E, 6251452.6N, RL35.0.
(2)  B1 is 310.49 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 44.16 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 328.63 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 25.69 degrees.
43   Lang Park 4C sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333996.5E, 6251452.6N, RL35.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 333983.2E, 6251560.4N, RL35.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
44   Lang Park 4D sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333983.2E, 6251560.4N, RL43.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334024.8E, 6251560.1N, RL43.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
45   For the Lang Park 4E sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334024.8E, 6251560.1N, RL30.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334114.5E, 6251559.2N, RL30.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
46   Lang Park 4F sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334114.5E, 6251559.2N, RL30.0.
(2)  B1 is 328.63 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 25.69 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 359.16 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 32.72 degrees.
Part 6 Macquarie Place sun access plane
Note—
This Part describes points approximately 35m above the eastern side of Loftus Street from Customs House Lane to Loftus Lane.
47   Macquarie Place 5 sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334475.5E, 6251661.4N, RL34.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334469.5E, 6251582.4N, RL43.0.
(3)  B is 37.90 degrees.
(4)  V is 39.00 degrees.
Part 7 Martin Place sun access planes
Note—
This Part describes points approximately 46m above the western side of George Street from Barrack Street to Regimental Square and approximately 45m above the northern side of Martin Place from 36m east of George Street to the eastern side of Macquarie Street.
48   Martin Place 6A sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334149.6E, 6251081.8N, RL62.4.
(2)  B1 is 282.25 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 60.44 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 310.49 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 44.16 degrees.
49   Martin Place 6B sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334149.6E, 6251081.8N, RL62.4.
(2)  B1 is 310.49 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 44.16 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 319.44 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 38.28 degrees.
50   Martin Place 6C sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334149.6E, 6251081.8N, RL62.4.
(2)  Y is a point at 334152.7E, 6251125.1N, RL62.4.
(3)  B is 319.44 degrees.
(4)  V is 38.28 degrees.
51   Martin Place 6D sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334208.4E, 6251107.4N, RL60.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334297.8E, 6251098.9N, RL60.0.
(3)  B is 358.41 degrees.
(4)  V is 46.76 degrees.
52   Martin Place 6E sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334297.8E, 6251098.9N, RL60.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334626.5E, 6251070.2N, RL77.5.
(3)  B is 358.41 degrees.
(4)  V is 46.76 degrees.
53   Martin Place 6F sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334626.5E, 6251070.2N, RL77.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334651.4E, 6251068.0N, RL77.5.
(3)  B is 358.41 degrees.
(4)  V is 46.76 degrees.
Part 8 Prince Alfred Park sun access planes
Note—
This Part describes points approximately 20m above the western and north-western sides of Prince Alfred Park and approximately 20m above the eastern side of Chalmers Street from Devonshire Street to Cleveland Street.
54   Prince Alfred Park 7A sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333799.2E, 6248664.6N, RL52.0.
(2)  B1 is 282.25 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 60.44 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 310.49 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 44.16 degrees.
55   Prince Alfred Park 7B sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333799.2E, 6248664.6N, RL52.0.
(2)  B1 is 310.49 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 44.16 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 328.63 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 25.69 degrees.
56   Prince Alfred Park 7C sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333799.2E, 6248664.6N, RL52.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 333814.7E, 6248775.0N, RL48.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
57   Prince Alfred Park 7D sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333814.7E, 6248775.0N, RL48.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 333841.9E, 6248797.5N, RL48.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
58   Prince Alfred Park 7E sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333841.9E, 6248797.5N, RL45.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334169.7E, 6249059.9N, RL43.5.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
59   Prince Alfred Park 7F sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334169.7E, 6249059.9N, RL43.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334190.2E, 6249059.2N, RL44.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
60   Prince Alfred Park 7G sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334190.2E, 6249059.2N, RL44.0.
(2)  B1 is 328.63 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 25.69 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 359.15 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 32.72 degrees.
61   Prince Alfred Park 7H sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334190.2E, 6249059.2N, RL44.0.
(2)  B1 is 359.16 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 32.72 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 29.98 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 26.34 degrees.
62   Prince Alfred Park 7I sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334190.2E, 6249059.2N, RL44.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334160.9E, 6248875.0N, RL49.5.
(3)  B is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V is 26.34 degrees.
63   Prince Alfred Park 7J sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334160.9E, 6248875.0N, RL49.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334157.8E, 6248858.0N, RL49.5.
(3)  B is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V is 26.34 degrees.
64   Prince Alfred Park 7K sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334157.8E, 6248858.0N, RL49.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334141.8E, 6248756.1N, RL51.5.
(3)  B is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V is 26.34 degrees.
65   Prince Alfred Park 7L sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334141.8E, 6248756.1N, RL51.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334139.4E, 6248742.9N, RL51.5.
(3)  B is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V is 26.34 degrees.
66   Prince Alfred Park 7M sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334139.4E, 6248742.9N, RL51.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334122.4E, 6248639.0N, RL51.5.
(3)  B is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V is 26.34 degrees.
67   Prince Alfred Park 7N sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334122.4E, 6248639.0N, RL51.5.
(2)  B1 is 29.98 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 26.34 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 46.60 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 45.48 degrees.
68   Prince Alfred Park 7O sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334122.4E, 6248639.0N, RL51.5.
(2)  B1 is 46.60 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 45.48 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 74.55 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 63.21 degrees.
69   Prince Alfred Park 7P sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334070.7E, 6248753.5N, RL40.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334037.4E, 6248630.0N, RL40.0.
(3)  B is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V is 26.34 degrees.
70   Prince Alfred Park 7Q sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334037.4E, 6248630.0N, RL40.0.
(2)  B1 is 29.98 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 26.34 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 46.60 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 45.48 degrees.
70A Prince Alfred Park 7R sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334037.4E, 6248630.0N, RL40.0.
(2)  B1 is 46.60 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 45.48 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 74.55 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 63.21 degrees.
Part 9 The Domain sun access planes
Note—
This Part describes points approximately 25m above the western side of Hospital Road from Shakespeare Place projecting south along the alignment of the western side of Hospital Road in a straight line above the Land Titles Office to Prince Albert Road.
71   The Domain 8A sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334773.8E, 6251245.0N, RL55.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334743.7E, 6251245.0N, RL54.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
72   The Domain 8B sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334743.7E, 6250957.9N, RL54.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334721.7E, 6250746.9N, RL54.5.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
Part 10 The Royal Botanic Gardens sun access planes
Note—
This Part describes points approximately 45m above the western side of Macquarie Street from its northern end to approximately half way between Bridge Road and Bent Street.
73   The Royal Botanic Gardens 9A sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334731.6E, 6252052.7N, RL48.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334715.7E, 6251977.3N, RL52.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
74   The Royal Botanic Gardens 9B sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334715.7E, 6251977.3N, RL52.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334704.4E, 6251866.8N, RL55.5.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
75   The Royal Botanic Gardens 9C sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334704.4E, 6251866.8N, RL55.5.
(2)  Y is a point at 334693.6E, 6251768.1N, RL57.75.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
76   The Royal Botanic Gardens 9D sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334693.6E, 6251768.1N, RL57.75.
(2)  Y is a point at 334691.0E, 6251747.3N, RL58.25.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
77   The Royal Botanic Gardens 9E sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334691.0E, 6251747.3N, RL58.25.
(2)  Y is a point at 334675.4E, 6251578.9N, RL66.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
78   The Royal Botanic Gardens 9F sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334675.4E, 6251578.9N, RL66.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334660.5E, 6251423.7N, RL72.5.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
Part 11 Wynyard Park sun access planes
Note—
This Part describes points approximately 45m above the western side of York Street from Wynyard Street to Margaret Street and approximately 30m above the northern side of Margaret Street from York Street to Carrington Street.
79   Wynyard Park 10A sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334035.3E, 6251133.4N, RL66.0.
(2)  B1 is 282.25 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 60.44 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 310.49 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 44.16 degrees.
80   Wynyard Park 10B sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334035.3E, 6251133.4N, RL66.0.
(2)  B1 is 310.49 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 44.16 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 328.63 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 25.69 degrees.
81   Wynyard Park 10C sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334035.3E, 6251133.4N, RL66.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334028.2E, 6251192.5N, RL66.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
82   Wynyard Park 10D sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334028.2E, 6251192.5N, RL66.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334007.2E, 6251365.1N, RL68.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
83   Wynyard Park 10E sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334007.2E, 6251365.1N, RL53.0.
(2)  Y is a point at 334108.3E, 6251367.1N, RL50.0.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
84   Wynyard Park 10F sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 334108.3E, 6251367.1N, RL50.0.
(2)  B1 is 328.63 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 25.69 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 359.16 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 32.72 degrees.
Part 12 Daniel Dawson Reserve sun access planes
Note—
This Part describes points approximately 11m above the eastern side of Spencer Lane from Chapel Lane to Boundary Street, approximately 14m above the northern side of Boundary Street from Spencer Lane to Wyndham Street, and approximately 14m above the western side of Wyndham Street from Boundary Street to Chapel Lane.
85   Daniel Dawson Reserve 11A sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333431.9E, 6247959.2N, RL32.8.
(2)  Y is a point at 333442.0E, 6248027.0N, RL32.8.
(3)  B is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V is 26.34 degrees.
86   Daniel Dawson Reserve 11B sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333442.0E, 6248027.0N, RL38.3.
(2)  B1 is 29.98 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 26.34 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 328.63 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 25.69 degrees.
87   Daniel Dawson Reserve 11C sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333442.0E, 6248027.0N, RL38.3.
(2)  Y is a point at 333338.9E, 6248035.4N, RL38.3.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
88   Daniel Dawson Reserve 11D sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333388.1E, 6248031.5N, RL38.9.
(2)  Y is a point at 333374.7E, 6247952.6N, RL38.9.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
Part 13 Alexandria Park sun access planes
Note—
This Part describes points approximately 16m above the eastern side of Wyndham Street from Power Avenue to Buckland Street, approximately 22m above the northern side of Buckland Street from Wyndham Street to Park Road, and approximately 21m above the western side of Park Road from Buckland Street to Power Avenue.
89   Alexandria Park 12A sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333539.6E, 6247417.1N, RL31.30.
(2)  Y is a point at 333480.9E, 6247605.4N, RL32.1.
(3)  B is 29.98 degrees.
(4)  V is 26.34 degrees.
90   Alexandria Park 12B sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333480.9E, 6247605.4N, RL35.4.
(2)  B1 is 29.98 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 26.34 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 328.63 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 25.69 degrees.
91   Alexandria Park 12C sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333480.9E, 6247605.4N, RL35.4.
(2)  Y is a point at 333195.5E, 6247513.7N, RL34.4.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
92   Alexandria Park 12D sun access plane
(1)  X is a point at 333195.5E, 6247513.7N, RL34.4.
(2)  Y is a point at 333254.1E, 6247326.3N, RL34.4.
(3)  B is 328.63 degrees.
(4)  V is 25.69 degrees.
Schedule 6B View planes
clause 6.19
Part 1 Interpretation
1   Description of view planes
Each view plane is given a view point (X) and the sides of the triangular view plane extending towards the sky from the point along two rays, where ray 1 is given by specified horizontal bearing (B1) and vertical angle (V1) and ray 2 is given by specified horizontal bearing (B2) and vertical angle (V2).
2   Measurement of view planes
In this Schedule—
(a)  coordinates are Map Grid of Australia 2020 coordinates, and
(b)  horizontal bearings are measured from grid north, and
(c)  vertical angles are measured above horizontal, and
(d)  heights (RLs) are on the Australian Height Datum (AHD) in metres.
Part 2 View planes
3   Central Station Clock Tower view protection plane
Note—
This clause describes a view point on the centreline of Broadway on the western side of Regent Street.
(1)  X is a point at 333731.6E, 6249248.2N, RL17.5.
(2)  B1 is 55.46 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 2.89 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 66.82 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 2.89 degrees.
4   Martin Place View of western sky view protection plane
Note—
This clause describes a view point on the centreline of Martin Place where it intersects with the western side of Macquarie Street.
(1)  X is a point at 334625.7E, 6251054.6N, RL34.5.
(2)  B1 is 273.20 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 6.55 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 277.04 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 6.46 degrees.
5   Martin Place View of Sydney GPO clock tower and western sky view protection plane
Note—
This clause describes a view point on the centreline of Martin Place approximately half way between Pitt Street and Castlereagh Street.
(1)  X is a point at 334346.8E, 6251079.4N, RL19.5.
(2)  B1 is 257.51 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 13.52 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 280.21 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 13.96 degrees.
6   Martin Place View of Sydney Hospital silhouette against the eastern sky view protection plane
Note—
This clause describes a view point on the centreline of Martin Place where it intersects with the eastern side of Elizabeth Street.
(1)  X is a point at 334510.0E, 6251064.8N, RL28.2.
(2)  B1 is 85.03 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 8.37 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 105.26 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 8.32 degrees.
7   Sydney Observatory view to Macquarie Lighthouse at Vaucluse view protection plane
Note—
This clause describes a view point on the eastern side of the Observatory where the signal flagstaff is located.
(1)  X is a point at 333961.8E, 6251971.4N, RL46.7.
(2)  B1 is 81.00 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 0.11 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 86.94 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 0.31 degrees.
8   Observatory Hill Rotunda view to Thompsons Corner and Observatory Park, Pennant Hills view protection plane
Note—
This clause describes a view point at the Observatory Hill Rotunda.
(1)  X is a point at 333951.6E, 6252020.4N, RL41.6.
(2)  B1 is 309.52 degrees.
(3)  V1 is 0.40 degrees.
(4)  B2 is 314.28 degrees.
(5)  V2 is 0.46 degrees.
Schedule 6C Contribution requirement for certain development on Planning Proposal Land
clause 7.13B
Planning Proposal Land
Contribution requirement
Land identified as “Area 1” on the Affordable Housing Map
The total amount of—
 	
(a)  the contribution applying to the development under clause 7.13, and
 	
(b)  if the part of a building intended to be used for a purpose other than residential accommodation has a floor space ratio of less than 1.5:1—9% of the gross floor area equivalent to the amount by which the floor space ratio of the building exceeds 1.5:1
Lot 15, DP 10721, 111 Cooper Street, Waterloo
The total amount of—
(a)  for 87.5% of the total floor area of all buildings—the contribution applying to the development under clause 7.13, and
(b)  for 12.5% of the total floor area of all buildings—9% of that total floor area.
Lots 6, 7 and 9, DP 10721 and Lot 8, DP 1147179, 221–223 Cope Street, Waterloo
The total amount of—
(a)  for 67% of the total floor area of all buildings—the contribution applying to the development under clause 7.13, and
(b)  for 33% of the total floor area of all buildings—9% of that total floor area.
Lots 1–41, SP 79210, 233 Cope Street, Waterloo
The total amount of—
(a)  for 73% of the total floor area of all buildings—the contribution applying to the development under clause 7.13, and
(b)  for 27% of the total floor area of all buildings—9% of that total floor area.
Lots 1–58, SP 69476, 110 Wellington Street, Waterloo
The total amount of—
(a)  for 68% of the total floor area of all buildings—the contribution applying to the development under clause 7.13, and
(b)  for 32% of the total floor area of all buildings—9% of that total floor area.
Lots 10 and 11, DP 10721, 116 Wellington Street, Waterloo
The total amount of—
(a)  for 66% of the total floor area of all buildings—the contribution applying to the development under clause 7.13, and
(b)  for 34% of the total floor area of all buildings—9% of that total floor area.
Dictionary
(Clause 1.4)
Note—
The Act and the Interpretation Act 1987 contain definitions and other provisions that affect the interpretation and application of this Plan.
Aboriginal object means any deposit, object or other material evidence (not being a handicraft made for sale) relating to the Aboriginal habitation of an area of New South Wales, being habitation before or concurrent with (or both) the occupation of that area by persons of non-Aboriginal extraction, and includes Aboriginal remains.
Aboriginal place of heritage significance means an area of land, the general location of which is identified in an Aboriginal heritage study adopted by the Council after public exhibition and that may be shown on the Heritage Map, that is—
(a)  the site of one or more Aboriginal objects or a place that has the physical remains of pre-European occupation by, or is of contemporary significance to, the Aboriginal people. It may (but need not) include items and remnants of the occupation of the land by Aboriginal people, such as burial places, engraving sites, rock art, midden deposits, scarred and sacred trees and sharpening grooves, or
(b)  a natural Aboriginal sacred site or other sacred feature. It includes natural features such as creeks or mountains of long-standing cultural significance, as well as initiation, ceremonial or story places or areas of more contemporary cultural significance.
Note—
The term may include (but is not limited to) places that are declared under section 84 of the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974 to be Aboriginal places for the purposes of that Act.
acid sulfate soils means naturally occurring sediments and soils containing iron sulfides (principally pyrite) or their precursors or oxidation products, whose exposure to oxygen leads to the generation of sulfuric acid (for example, by drainage or excavation).
Acid Sulfate Soils Manual means the manual by that name published by the Acid Sulfate Soils Management Advisory Committee and made publicly available.
Acid Sulfate Soils Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Acid Sulfate Soils Map.
Active Street Frontages Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Active Street Frontages Map.
advertisement has the same meaning as in the Act.
Note—
The term is defined as a sign, notice, device or representation in the nature of an advertisement visible from any public place or public reserve or from any navigable water.
advertising structure has the same meaning as in the Act.
Note—
The term is defined as a structure used or to be used principally for the display of an advertisement.
Advertising structures are a type of signage—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
affordable housing has the same meaning as in the Act.
Note—
The term is defined as housing for very low income households, low income households or moderate income households, being such households as are prescribed by the regulations or as are provided for in an environmental planning instrument.
Affordable Housing Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Affordable Housing Map.
agricultural produce industry means a building or place used for the handling, treating, processing or packing, for commercial purposes, of produce from agriculture (including dairy products, seeds, fruit, vegetables or other plant material), and includes wineries, flour mills, cotton seed oil plants, cotton gins, feed mills, cheese and butter factories, and juicing or canning plants, but does not include a livestock processing industry.
Note—
Agricultural produce industries are a type of rural industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
agriculture means any of the following—
(aaa)  agritourism,
(a)  aquaculture,
(b)  extensive agriculture,
(c)  intensive livestock agriculture,
(d)  intensive plant agriculture.
Note—
Part 6 of the Plantations and Reafforestation Act 1999 provides that exempt farm forestry within the meaning of that Act is not subject to the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979.
agritourism means the following—
(a)  farm gate premises,
(b)  farm experience premises.
Note—
Agritourism is a type of agriculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
air transport facility means an airport or a heliport that is not part of an airport, and includes associated communication and air traffic control facilities or structures.
airport means a place that is used for the landing, taking off, parking, maintenance or repair of aeroplanes, and includes associated buildings, installations, facilities and movement areas and any heliport that is part of the airport.
Note—
Airports are a type of air transport facility—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
airstrip means a single runway for the landing, taking off or parking of aeroplanes for private aviation only, but does not include an airport, heliport or helipad.
Alternative Floor Space Ratio Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Alternative Floor Space Ratio Map.
Alternative Floor Space Ratio Map—Affordable Housing Sites means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Alternative Floor Space Ratio Map—Affordable Housing Sites.
Alternative Floor Space Ratio Map—Employment Sites means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Alternative Floor Space Ratio Map—Employment Sites.
Alternative Height of Buildings Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Alternative Height of Buildings Map.
amusement centre means a building or place (not being part of a pub or registered club) used principally for playing—
(a)  billiards, pool or other like games, or
(b)  electronic or mechanical amusement devices, such as pinball machines, computer or video games and the like.
animal boarding or training establishment means a building or place used for the breeding, boarding, training, keeping or caring of animals for commercial purposes (other than for the agistment of horses), and includes any associated riding school or ancillary veterinary hospital.
aquaculture has the same meaning as in the Fisheries Management Act 1994. It includes oyster aquaculture, pond-based aquaculture and tank-based aquaculture.
Note—
Aquaculture is a type of agriculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
archaeological site means a place that contains one or more relics.
artisan food and drink industry means a building or place the principal purpose of which is the making or manufacture of boutique, artisan or craft food or drink products only. It must also include at least one of the following—
(a)  a retail area for the sale of the products,
(b)  the preparation and serving, on a retail basis, of food and drink to people for consumption on the premises, whether or not liquor, take away meals and drinks or entertainment are also provided,
(c)  facilities for holding tastings, tours or workshops.
Note—
See clause 5.4 for controls in certain zones relating to the retail floor area of an artisan food and drink industry.
Artisan food and drink industries are a type of light industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
attached dwelling means a building containing 3 or more dwellings, where—
(a)  each dwelling is attached to another dwelling by a common wall, and
(b)  each of the dwellings is on its own lot of land, and
(c)  none of the dwellings is located above any part of another dwelling.
Note—
Attached dwellings are a type of residential accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
attic means any habitable space, but not a separate dwelling, contained wholly within a roof above the ceiling line of the storey immediately below, except for minor elements such as dormer windows and the like.
backpackers’ accommodation means a building or place that—
(a)  provides temporary or short-term accommodation on a commercial basis, and
(b)  has shared facilities, such as a communal bathroom, kitchen or laundry, and
(c)  provides accommodation on a bed or dormitory-style basis (rather than by room).
Note—
Backpackers’ accommodation is a type of tourist and visitor accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
basement means the space of a building where the floor level of that space is predominantly below ground level (existing) and where the floor level of the storey immediately above is less than 1 metre above ground level (existing).
BASIX affected development has the same meaning as it has in the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2000.
BASIX commitment means a commitment set out in a BASIX certificate (within the meaning of the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2000).
bed and breakfast accommodation means an existing dwelling in which temporary or short-term accommodation is provided on a commercial basis by the permanent residents of the dwelling and where—
(a)  meals are provided for guests only, and
(b)  cooking facilities for the preparation of meals are not provided within guests’ rooms, and
(c)  dormitory-style accommodation is not provided.
Note—
See clause 5.4 for controls relating to the number of bedrooms for bed and breakfast accommodation.
Bed and breakfast accommodation is a type of tourist and visitor accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
bee keeping means a building or place used for the keeping and breeding of bees for commercial purposes.
Note—
Bee keeping is a type of extensive agriculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
biodiversity or biological diversity means the variety of living animal and plant life from all sources, and includes diversity within and between species and diversity of ecosystems.
biosolids treatment facility means a building or place used as a facility for the treatment of biosolids from a sewage treatment plant or from a water recycling facility.
Note—
Biosolids treatment facilities are a type of sewerage system—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
boarding house means a building or place—
(a)  that provides residents with a principal place of residence for at least 3 months, and
(b)  that contains shared facilities, such as a communal living room, bathroom, kitchen or laundry, and
(c)  that contains rooms, some or all of which may have private kitchen and bathroom facilities, and
(d)  used to provide affordable housing, and
(e)  if not carried out by or on behalf of the Land and Housing Corporation—managed by a registered community housing provider,
but does not include backpackers’ accommodation, co-living housing, a group home, hotel or motel accommodation, seniors housing or a serviced apartment.
boat building and repair facility means any facility (including a building or other structure) used primarily for the construction, maintenance or repair of boats, whether or not including the storage, sale or hire of boats, but does not include a marina or boat shed.
boat launching ramp means a structure designed primarily for the launching of trailer borne recreational vessels, and includes associated car parking facilities.
boat shed means a building or other structure used for the storage and routine maintenance of a boat or boats and that is associated with a private dwelling or non-profit organisation, and includes any skid used in connection with the building or other structure.
Botany Road Precinct Opportunity Land means land identified as “Botany Road Precinct Opportunity Land” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
brothel has the same meaning as in the Act.
Note—
This definition is relevant to the definitions of home occupation (sex services) and sex services premises in this Dictionary.
building has the same meaning as in the Act.
Note—
The term is defined to include part of a building and any structure or part of a structure, but not including a manufactured home, a moveable dwelling or associated structure (or part of a manufactured home, moveable dwelling or associated structure).
building height (or height of building) means—
(a)  in relation to the height of a building in metres—the vertical distance from ground level (existing) to the highest point of the building, or
(b)  in relation to the RL of a building—the vertical distance from the Australian Height Datum to the highest point of the building,
including plant and lift overruns, but excluding communication devices, antennae, satellite dishes, masts, flagpoles, chimneys, flues and the like.
building identification sign means a sign that identifies or names a building and that may include the name of a building, the street name and number of a building, and a logo or other symbol but does not include general advertising of products, goods or services.
Note—
Building identification signs are a type of signage—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
building line or setback means the horizontal distance between the property boundary or other stated boundary (measured at 90 degrees from the boundary) and—
(a)  a building wall, or
(b)  the outside face of any balcony, deck or the like, or
(c)  the supporting posts of a carport or verandah roof,
whichever distance is the shortest.
bush fire hazard reduction work has the same meaning as in the Rural Fires Act 1997.
Note—
The term is defined as follows—
bush fire hazard reduction work means—
(a)  the establishment or maintenance of fire breaks on land, and
(b)  the controlled application of appropriate fire regimes or other means for the reduction or modification of available fuels within a predetermined area to mitigate against the spread of a bush fire,
but does not include construction of a track, trail or road.
bush fire prone land has the same meaning as in the Act.
Note—
The term is defined, in relation to an area, as land recorded for the time being as bush fire prone land on a map for the area certified as referred to in section 10.3(2) of the Act.
bush fire risk management plan means a plan prepared under Division 4 of Part 3 of the Rural Fires Act 1997 for the purpose referred to in section 54 of that Act.
business identification sign means a sign—
(a)  that indicates—
(i)  the name of the person or business, and
(ii)  the nature of the business carried on by the person at the premises or place at which the sign is displayed, and
(b)  that may include the address of the premises or place and a logo or other symbol that identifies the business,
but that does not contain any advertising relating to a person who does not carry on business at the premises or place.
Note—
Business identification signs are a type of signage—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
business premises means a building or place at or on which—
(a)  an occupation, profession or trade (other than an industry) is carried on for the provision of services directly to members of the public on a regular basis, or
(b)  a service is provided directly to members of the public on a regular basis,
and includes funeral homes, goods repair and reuse premises and, without limitation, premises such as banks, post offices, hairdressers, dry cleaners, travel agencies, betting agencies and the like, but does not include an entertainment facility, home business, home occupation, home occupation (sex services), medical centre, restricted premises, sex services premises or veterinary hospital.
Note—
Business premises are a type of commercial premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
camping ground means an area of land, with access to communal amenities, used for the short term placement of campervans, tents, annexes or other similar portable and lightweight temporary shelters for accommodation and includes a primitive camping ground but does not include—
(a)  a caravan park, or
(b)  farm stay accommodation.
canal estate development—see clause 2.9.
car park means a building or place primarily used for the purpose of parking motor vehicles, including any manoeuvring space and access thereto, whether operated for gain or not.
caravan park means an area of land, with access to communal amenities, used for the installation or placement of caravans, or caravans and other moveable dwellings, but does not include farm stay accommodation.
catchment action plan has the same meaning as in the Catchment Management Authorities Act 2003.
Note—
The term is defined as a catchment action plan of an authority that has been approved by the Minister under Part 4 of the Catchment Management Authorities Act 2003.
cellar door premises means a building or place that is used to sell wine by retail and that is situated on land on which there is a commercial vineyard, and where most of the wine offered for sale is produced in a winery situated on that land or is produced predominantly from grapes grown in the surrounding area.
Note—
Cellar door premises are a type of farm gate premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
cemetery means a building or place used primarily for the interment of deceased persons or pets or their ashes, whether or not it contains an associated building for conducting memorial services.
Central Sydney means the land identified as “Central Sydney” on the Sydney local Environmental Plan 2012 Locality and Site Identification Map.
centre-based child care facility means—
(a)  a building or place used for the education and care of children that provides any one or more of the following—
(i)  long day care,
(ii)  occasional child care,
(iii)  out-of-school-hours care (including vacation care),
(iv)  preschool care, or
(b)  an approved family day care venue (within the meaning of the Children (Education and Care Services) National Law (NSW)),
Note—
An approved family day care venue is a place, other than a residence, where an approved family day care service (within the meaning of the Children (Education and Care Services) National Law (NSW)) is provided.
but does not include—
(c)  a building or place used for home-based child care or school-based child care, or
(d)  an office of a family day care service (within the meanings of the Children (Education and Care Services) National Law (NSW)), or
(e)  a babysitting, playgroup or child-minding service that is organised informally by the parents of the children concerned, or
(f)  a child-minding service that is provided in connection with a recreational or commercial facility (such as a gymnasium) to care for children while the children’s parents are using the facility, or
(g)  a service that is concerned primarily with providing lessons or coaching in, or providing for participation in, a cultural, recreational, religious or sporting activity, or providing private tutoring, or
(h)  a child-minding service that is provided by or in a health services facility, but only if the service is established, registered or licensed as part of the institution operating in the facility.
Note—
Centre-based child care facilities are a type of early education and care facility—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
charter and tourism boating facility means any facility (including a building or other structure) used for charter boating or tourism boating purposes, being a facility that is used only by the operators of the facility and that has a direct structural connection between the foreshore and the waterway, but does not include a marina.
City of Sydney means the City of Sydney local government area.
City of Sydney Competitive Design Policy means the City of Sydney Competitive Design Policy adopted by the Council on 14 December 2020.
Note—
The Policy is made available by the Council on its website (www.cityofsydney.nsw.gov.au).
classified road has the same meaning as in the Roads Act 1993.
Note—
The term is defined as follows—
classified road means any of the following—
(a)  a main road,
(b)  a highway,
(c)  a freeway,
(d)  a controlled access road,
(e)  a secondary road,
(f)  a tourist road,
(g)  a tollway,
(h)  a transitway,
(i)  a State work.
(See Roads Act 1993 for meanings of these terms.)
clearing native vegetation has the same meaning as in Part 5A of the Local Land Services Act 2013.
clearing vegetation has the same meaning as in State Environmental Planning Policy (Biodiversity and Conservation) 2021, Chapter 2.
coastal hazard has the same meaning as in the Coastal Management Act 2016.
coastal lake means a body of water identified in State Environmental Planning Policy (Resilience and Hazards) 2021, Schedule 1.
coastal protection works has the same meaning as in the Coastal Management Act 2016.
coastal waters of the State—see section 58 of the Interpretation Act 1987.
coastal zone has the same meaning as in the Coastal Management Act 2016.
co-living housing means a building or place that—
(a)  has at least 6 private rooms, some or all of which may have private kitchen and bathroom facilities, and
(b)  provides occupants with a principal place of residence for at least 3 months, and
(c)  has shared facilities, such as a communal living room, bathroom, kitchen or laundry, maintained by a managing agent, who provides management services 24 hours a day,
but does not include backpackers’ accommodation, a boarding house, a group home, hotel or motel accommodation, seniors housing or a serviced apartment.
Note—
Co-living housing is a type of residential accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
commercial farm means a farm on which agriculture is undertaken that is—
(a)  on land categorised as farmland under the Local Government Act 1993, section 515, or
(b)  a primary production business within the meaning of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 of the Commonwealth, or part of a primary production business, including a business that—
(i)  was a primary production business, and
(ii)  has temporarily ceased to be a primary production business because of a natural disaster, including a drought, flood or bush fire.
commercial premises means any of the following—
(a)  business premises,
(b)  office premises,
(c)  retail premises.
community facility means a building or place—
(a)  owned or controlled by a public authority or non-profit community organisation, and
(b)  used for the physical, social, cultural or intellectual development or welfare of the community,
but does not include an educational establishment, hospital, retail premises, place of public worship or residential accommodation.
community land has the same meaning as in the Local Government Act 1993.
correctional centre means—
(a)  any premises declared to be a correctional centre by a proclamation in force under section 225 of the Crimes (Administration of Sentences) Act 1999, including any juvenile correctional centre or periodic detention centre, and
(b)  any premises declared to be a detention centre by an order in force under section 5(1) of the Children (Detention Centres) Act 1987,
but does not include any police station or court cell complex in which a person is held in custody in accordance with any Act.
Council means the Council of the City of Sydney.
creative industry means a building or place the principal purpose of which is to produce or demonstrate arts, crafts, design or other creative products, and includes artists’ studios, recording studios, and set design and production facilities.
Note—
Creative industries are a type of light industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
crematorium means a building or place in which deceased persons or pets are cremated or processed by alkaline hydrolysis, whether or not the building or place contains an associated building for conducting memorial services.
curtilage, in relation to a heritage item or conservation area, means the area of land (including land covered by water) surrounding a heritage item, a heritage conservation area, or building, work or place within a heritage conservation area, that contributes to its heritage significance.
dairy (pasture-based) means a dairy that is conducted on a commercial basis where the only restriction facilities present are milking sheds and holding yards and where cattle generally feed by grazing on living grasses and other plants on the land and are constrained for no more than 10 hours in any 24 hour period (excluding during any period of drought or similar emergency relief).
Note—
Dairies (pasture-based) are a type of extensive agriculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
dairy (restricted) means a dairy that is conducted on a commercial basis where restriction facilities (in addition to milking sheds and holding yards) are present and where cattle have access to grazing for less than 10 hours in any 24 hour period (excluding during any period of drought or similar emergency relief). It may comprise the whole or part of a restriction facility.
Note—
Dairies (restricted) are a type of intensive livestock agriculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
data centre means a building or place the principal purpose of which is to collect, distribute, process or store electronic data using information technology.
Note—
Data centres are a type of high technology industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
demolish, in relation to a heritage item or an Aboriginal object, or a building, work, relic or tree within a heritage conservation area, means wholly or partly destroy, dismantle or deface the heritage item, Aboriginal object or building, work, relic or tree.
depot means a building or place used for the storage (but not sale or hire) of plant, machinery or other goods (that support the operations of an existing undertaking) when not required for use, but does not include a farm building.
drainage means any activity that intentionally alters the hydrological regime of any locality by facilitating the removal of surface or ground water. It may include the construction, deepening, extending, opening, installation or laying of any canal, drain or pipe, either on the land or in such a manner as to encourage drainage of adjoining land.
dual occupancy means a dual occupancy (attached) or a dual occupancy (detached).
Note—
Dual occupancies are a type of residential accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
dual occupancy (attached) means 2 dwellings on one lot of land that are attached to each other, but does not include a secondary dwelling.
Note—
Dual occupancies (attached) are a type of dual occupancy—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
dual occupancy (detached) means 2 detached dwellings on one lot of land, but does not include a secondary dwelling.
Note—
Dual occupancies (detached) are a type of dual occupancy—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
dwelling means a room or suite of rooms occupied or used or so constructed or adapted as to be capable of being occupied or used as a separate domicile.
dwelling house means a building containing only one dwelling.
Note—
Dwelling houses are a type of residential accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
early education and care facility means a building or place used for the education and care of children, and includes any of the following—
(a)  a centre-based child care facility,
(b)  home-based child care,
(c)  school-based child care.
earthworks means excavation or filling.
ecologically sustainable development has the same meaning as in the Act.
eco-tourist facility means a building or place that—
(a)  provides temporary or short-term accommodation to visitors on a commercial basis, and
(b)  is located in or adjacent to an area with special ecological or cultural features, and
(c)  is sensitively designed and located so as to minimise bulk, scale and overall physical footprint and any ecological or visual impact.
It may include facilities that are used to provide information or education to visitors and to exhibit or display items.
Note—
See clause 5.13 for requirements in relation to the granting of development consent for eco-tourist facilities.
Eco-tourist facilities are not a type of tourist and visitor accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
educational establishment means a building or place used for education (including teaching), being—
(a)  a school, or
(b)  a tertiary institution, including a university or a TAFE establishment, that provides formal education and is constituted by or under an Act.
electricity generating works means a building or place used for the purpose of—
(a)  making or generating electricity, or
(b)  electricity storage.
emergency services facility means a building or place (including a helipad) used in connection with the provision of emergency services by an emergency services organisation.
emergency services organisation means any of the following—
(a)  Ambulance Service of New South Wales,
(b)  Fire and Rescue NSW,
(c)  NSW Rural Fire Service,
(d)  NSW Police Force,
(e)  State Emergency Service,
(f)  New South Wales Volunteer Rescue Association Incorporated,
(g)  New South Wales Mines Rescue Brigade established under the Coal Industry Act 2001,
(h)  an accredited rescue unit within the meaning of the State Emergency and Rescue Management Act 1989.
entertainment facility means a theatre, cinema, music hall, concert hall, dance hall and the like, but does not include a pub or registered club.
environmental facility means a building or place that provides for the recreational use or scientific study of natural systems, and includes walking tracks, seating, shelters, board walks, observation decks, bird hides or the like, and associated display structures.
environmental protection works means works associated with the rehabilitation of land towards its natural state or any work to protect land from environmental degradation, and includes bush regeneration works, wetland protection works, erosion protection works, dune restoration works and the like, but does not include coastal protection works.
estuary has the same meaning as in the Water Management Act 2000.
Note—
The term is defined as follows—
estuary means—
(a)  any part of a river whose level is periodically or intermittently affected by coastal tides, or
(b)  any lake or other partially enclosed body of water that is periodically or intermittently open to the sea, or
(c)  anything declared by the regulations (under the Water Management Act 2000) to be an estuary,
but does not include anything declared by the regulations (under the Water Management Act 2000) not to be an estuary.
excavation means the removal of soil or rock, whether moved to another part of the same site or to another site, but does not include garden landscaping that does not significantly alter the shape, natural form or drainage of the land.
exhibition home means a dwelling built for the purposes of the public exhibition and marketing of new dwellings, whether or not it is intended to be sold as a private dwelling after its use for those purposes is completed, and includes any associated sales or home finance office or place used for displays.
exhibition village means 2 or more exhibition homes and associated buildings and places used for house and land sales, site offices, advisory services, car parking, food and drink sales and other associated purposes.
extensive agriculture means any of the following—
(a)  the production of crops or fodder (including irrigated pasture and fodder crops) for commercial purposes,
(b)  the grazing of livestock (other than pigs and poultry) for commercial purposes on living grasses and other plants on the land as their primary source of dietary requirements, and any supplementary or emergency feeding, or temporary agistment or housing for weaning, dipping, tagging or similar husbandry purposes, of the livestock,
(c)  bee keeping,
(d)  a dairy (pasture-based) where the animals generally feed by grazing on living grasses and other plants on the land as their primary source of dietary requirements, and any supplementary or emergency feeding, or temporary agistment or housing for weaning, dipping, tagging or similar husbandry purposes, of the animals.
Note—
Extensive agriculture is a type of agriculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
extractive industry means the winning or removal of extractive materials (otherwise than from a mine) by methods such as excavating, dredging, tunnelling or quarrying, including the storing, stockpiling or processing of extractive materials by methods such as recycling, washing, crushing, sawing or separating, but does not include turf farming.
Note—
Extractive industries are not a type of industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
extractive material means sand, soil, gravel, rock or similar substances that are not minerals within the meaning of the Mining Act 1992.
farm building means a structure the use of which is ancillary to an agricultural use of the landholding on which it is situated and includes a hay shed, stock holding yard, machinery shed, shearing shed, silo, storage tank, outbuilding or the like, but does not include a dwelling.
farm experience premises means a building or place—
(a)  on a commercial farm, and
(b)  ancillary to the farm, and
(c)  used to provide visitors to the farm, on a commercial basis, with small-scale and low-impact tourist or recreational activities, including the following, but not including motor sports—
(i)  horse riding,
(ii)  farm tours,
(iii)  functions or conferences,
(iv)  farm field days.
Note—
Farm experience premises are a type of agritourism—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
farm gate premises—
(a)  means a building or place—
(i)  on a commercial farm, and
(ii)  ancillary to the farm, and
(iii)  used to provide visitors to the farm, on a commercial basis, with agricultural products predominantly from the farm, supplemented by products from other farms in the region, or with services or activities related to the products, including the following—
(A)  processing, packaging and sale of the products, but not the processing of animals,
(B)  the preparation and serving, on a retail basis, of food and drink to people for consumption on the premises, whether or not liquor, take away meals and drinks or entertainment are also provided,
(C)  tastings or workshops,
(D)  the provision of information or education related to the products, and
(b)  includes cellar door premises.
Note—
Farm gate premises are a type of agritourism—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
farm stay accommodation means a building or place—
(a)  on a commercial farm, and
(b)  ancillary to the farm, and
(c)  used to provide temporary accommodation to paying guests of the farm, including in buildings or moveable dwellings.
Note—
Farm stay accommodation is a type of tourist and visitor accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
feedlot means a confined or restricted area that is operated on a commercial basis to rear and fatten cattle, sheep or other animals, but does not include a poultry farm, dairy or pig farm.
Note—
Feedlots are a type of intensive livestock agriculture. Intensive livestock agriculture does not include extensive agriculture. See the definitions of those terms in this Dictionary.
fill means the depositing of soil, rock or other similar extractive material obtained from the same or another site, but does not include—
(a)  the depositing of topsoil or feature rock imported to the site that is intended for use in garden landscaping, turf or garden bed establishment or top dressing of lawns and that does not significantly alter the shape, natural form or drainage of the land, or
(b)  the use of land as a waste disposal facility.
filming means recording images (whether on film or video tape or electronically or by other means) for exhibition or broadcast (such as by cinema, television or the internet or by other means), but does not include—
(a)  still photography, or
(b)  recording images of a wedding ceremony or other private celebration or event principally for the purpose of making a record for the participants in the ceremony, celebration or event, or
(c)  recording images as a visitor or tourist for non-commercial purposes, or
(d)  recording for the immediate purposes of a television program that provides information by way of current affairs or daily news.
fish has the same meaning as in the Fisheries Management Act 1994.
Note—
The term is defined as follows—
Definition of “fish”
(1)  
Fish means marine, estuarine or freshwater fish or other aquatic animal life at any stage of their life history (whether alive or dead).
(2)  
Fish includes—
(a)  oysters and other aquatic molluscs, and
(b)  crustaceans, and
(c)  echinoderms, and
(d)  beachworms and other aquatic polychaetes.
(3)  
Fish also includes any part of a fish.
(4)  
However, fish does not include whales, mammals, reptiles, birds, amphibians or other things excluded from the definition by the regulations under the Fisheries Management Act 1994.
flood mitigation work means work designed and constructed for the express purpose of mitigating flood impacts. It involves changing the characteristics of flood behaviour to alter the level, location, volume, speed or timing of flood waters to mitigate flood impacts. Types of works may include excavation, construction or enlargement of any fill, wall, or levee that will alter riverine flood behaviour, local overland flooding, or tidal action so as to mitigate flood impacts.
floor space ratio—see clause 4.5.
Floor Space Ratio Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Floor Space Ratio Map.
food and drink premises means premises that are used for the preparation and retail sale of food or drink (or both) for immediate consumption on or off the premises, and includes any of the following—
(a)  a restaurant or cafe,
(b)  take away food and drink premises,
(c)  a pub,
(d)  a small bar.
Note—
Food and drink premises are a type of retail premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
foreshore area means the land between the foreshore building line and the mean high water mark of the nearest bay or river.
foreshore building line means the line shown as the foreshore building line on the Foreshore Building Line Map.
Foreshore Building Line Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Foreshore Building Line Map.
forestry means forestry operations within the meaning of the Forestry Act 2012 or Part 5B of the Local Land Services Act 2013.
freight transport facility means a facility used principally for the bulk handling of goods for transport by road, rail, air or sea, including any facility for the loading and unloading of vehicles, aircraft, vessels or containers used to transport those goods and for the parking, holding, servicing or repair of those vehicles, aircraft or vessels or for the engines or carriages involved.
function centre means a building or place used for the holding of events, functions, conferences and the like, and includes convention centres, exhibition centres and reception centres, but does not include an entertainment facility.
funeral home means premises that are used to arrange, conduct and cater for funerals and memorial services, whether or not the premises include facilities for the short-term storage, dressing and viewing of bodies of deceased persons.
Note—
Funeral homes are a type of business premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
garden centre means a building or place the principal purpose of which is the retail sale of plants and landscaping and gardening supplies and equipment. It may include a restaurant or cafe and the sale of any of the following—
(a)  outdoor furniture and furnishings, barbecues, shading and awnings, pools, spas and associated supplies, and items associated with the construction and maintenance of outdoor areas,
(b)  pets and pet supplies,
(c)  fresh produce.
Note—
Garden centres are a type of retail premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
general industry means a building or place (other than a heavy industry or light industry) that is used to carry out an industrial activity.
Note—
General industries are a type of industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
goods repair and reuse premises means a building or place the principal purpose of which is to collect, repair or refurbish goods, including furniture and appliances, for the purposes of sale, hire or swap, and includes premises known as op shops.
Note—
Goods repair and reuse premises are a type of business premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
Green Square means the land identified as “Green Square” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
gross floor area means the sum of the floor area of each floor of a building measured from the internal face of external walls, or from the internal face of walls separating the building from any other building, measured at a height of 1.4 metres above the floor, and includes—
(a)  the area of a mezzanine, and
(b)  habitable rooms in a basement or an attic, and
(c)  any shop, auditorium, cinema, and the like, in a basement or attic,
but excludes—
(d)  any area for common vertical circulation, such as lifts and stairs, and
(e)  any basement—
(i)  storage, and
(ii)  vehicular access, loading areas, garbage and services, and
(f)  plant rooms, lift towers and other areas used exclusively for mechanical services or ducting, and
(g)  car parking to meet any requirements of the consent authority (including access to that car parking), and
(h)  any space used for the loading or unloading of goods (including access to it), and
(i)  terraces and balconies with outer walls less than 1.4 metres high, and
(j)  voids above a floor at the level of a storey or storey above.
ground level (existing) means the existing level of a site at any point.
ground level (finished) means, for any point on a site, the ground surface after completion of any earthworks (excluding any excavation for a basement, footings or the like) for which consent has been granted or that is exempt development.
ground level (mean) means, for any site on which a building is situated or proposed, one half of the sum of the highest and lowest levels at ground level (finished) of the outer surface of the external walls of the building.
group home means a permanent group home or a transitional group home.
Note—
Group homes are a type of residential accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
group home (permanent) or permanent group home means a dwelling—
(a)  that is occupied by persons as a single household with or without paid supervision or care and whether or not those persons are related or payment for board and lodging is required, and
(b)  that is used to provide permanent household accommodation for people with a disability or people who are socially disadvantaged,
but does not include development to which State Environmental Planning Policy (Housing) 2021, Chapter 3, Part 5 applies.
Note—
Permanent group homes are a type of group home—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
group home (transitional) or transitional group home means a dwelling—
(a)  that is occupied by persons as a single household with or without paid supervision or care and whether or not those persons are related or payment for board and lodging is required, and
(b)  that is used to provide temporary accommodation for the relief or rehabilitation of people with a disability or for drug or alcohol rehabilitation purposes, or that is used to provide half-way accommodation for persons formerly living in institutions or temporary accommodation comprising refuges for men, women or young people,
but does not include development to which State Environmental Planning Policy (Housing) 2021, Chapter 3, Part 5 applies.
Note—
Transitional group homes are a type of group home—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
hardware and building supplies means a building or place the principal purpose of which is the sale or hire of goods or materials, such as household fixtures, timber, tools, paint, wallpaper, plumbing supplies and the like, that are used in the construction and maintenance of buildings and adjacent outdoor areas.
Note—
Hardware and building supplies are a type of retail premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
hazardous industry means a building or place used to carry out an industrial activity that would, when carried out and when all measures proposed to reduce or minimise its impact on the locality have been employed (including, for example, measures to isolate the activity from existing or likely future development on other land in the locality), pose a significant risk in the locality—
(a)  to human health, life or property, or
(b)  to the biophysical environment.
Note—
Hazardous industries are a type of heavy industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
hazardous storage establishment means a building or place that is used for the storage of goods, materials or products and that would, when in operation and when all measures proposed to reduce or minimise its impact on the locality have been employed (including, for example, measures to isolate the building or place from existing or likely future development on other land in the locality), pose a significant risk in the locality—
(a)  to human health, life or property, or
(b)  to the biophysical environment.
Note—
Hazardous storage establishments are a type of heavy industrial storage establishment—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
headland includes a promontory extending from the general line of the coastline into a large body of water, such as a sea, coastal lake or bay.
health care professional means any person registered under an Act for the purpose of providing health care.
health consulting rooms means premises comprising one or more rooms within (or within the curtilage of) a dwelling house used by not more than 3 health care professionals at any one time.
Note—
Health consulting rooms are a type of health services facility—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
health services facility means a building or place used to provide medical or other services relating to the maintenance or improvement of the health, or the restoration to health, of persons or the prevention of disease in or treatment of injury to persons, and includes any of the following—
(a)  a medical centre,
(b)  community health service facilities,
(c)  health consulting rooms,
(d)  patient transport facilities, including helipads and ambulance facilities,
(e)  hospital.
heavy industrial storage establishment means a building or place used for the storage of goods, materials, plant or machinery for commercial purposes and that requires separation from other development because of the nature of the processes involved, or the goods, materials, plant or machinery stored, and includes any of the following—
(a)  a hazardous storage establishment,
(b)  a liquid fuel depot,
(c)  an offensive storage establishment.
heavy industry means a building or place used to carry out an industrial activity that requires separation from other development because of the nature of the processes involved, or the materials used, stored or produced, and includes—
(a)  hazardous industry, or
(b)  offensive industry.
It may also involve the use of a hazardous storage establishment or offensive storage establishment.
Note—
Heavy industries are a type of industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
Height of Buildings Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Height of Buildings Map.
helipad means a place not open to the public used for the taking off and landing of helicopters.
heliport means a place open to the public that is used for the taking off and landing of helicopters, whether or not it includes—
(a)  a terminal building, or
(b)  facilities for the parking, storage or repair of helicopters.
Note—
Heliports are a type of air transport facility—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
heritage conservation area means an area of land of heritage significance—
(a)  shown on the Heritage Map as a heritage conservation area, and
(b)  the location and nature of which is described in Schedule 5,
and includes any heritage items situated on or within that area.
heritage conservation management plan means a document prepared in accordance with guidelines prepared by the Public Service agency responsible to the Minister administering the Heritage Act 1977 that documents the heritage significance of an item, place or heritage conservation area and identifies conservation policies and management mechanisms that are appropriate to enable that significance to be retained.
heritage impact statement means a document consisting of—
(a)  a statement demonstrating the heritage significance of a heritage item or heritage conservation area, and
(b)  an assessment of the impact that proposed development will have on that significance, and
(c)  proposals for measures to minimise that impact.
heritage item means a building, work, place, relic, tree, object or archaeological site the location and nature of which is described in Schedule 5.
Note—
An inventory of heritage items is also available at the office of the Council.
heritage management document means—
(a)  a heritage conservation management plan, or
(b)  a heritage impact statement, or
(c)  any other document that provides guidelines for the ongoing management and conservation of a heritage item, Aboriginal object, Aboriginal place of heritage significance or heritage conservation area.
Heritage Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Heritage Map.
heritage significance means historical, scientific, cultural, social, archaeological, architectural, natural or aesthetic value.
high technology industry means a building or place predominantly used to carry out an industrial activity that involves any of the following—
(a)  electronic or micro-electronic systems, goods or components,
(b)  information technology (such as computer software or hardware),
(c)  instrumentation or instruments of a scientific, industrial, technological, medical or similar nature,
(d)  biological, pharmaceutical, medical or paramedical systems, goods or components,
(e)  film, television or multi-media technologies, including any post production systems, goods or components,
(f)  telecommunications systems, goods or components,
(g)  sustainable energy technologies,
(h)  any other goods, systems or components intended for use in a science or technology related field,
and includes a data centre, but does not include a building or place used to carry out an industrial activity that presents a hazard or potential hazard to the neighbourhood or that, because of the scale and nature of the processes involved, interferes with the amenity of the neighbourhood.
Note—
High technology industries are a type of light industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
highway service centre means a building or place used to provide refreshments and vehicle services to highway users. It may include any one or more of the following—
(a)  a restaurant or cafe,
(b)  take away food and drink premises,
(c)  service stations and facilities for emergency vehicle towing and repairs,
(d)  parking for vehicles,
(e)  rest areas and public amenities.
home-based child care means a family day care residence (within the meaning of the Children (Education and Care Services) National Law (NSW)) at which the education and care service is provided at any one time to no more than 7 children (including any child of the person providing the service) all of whom are under the age of 13 years and no more than 4 of whom are children who do not ordinarily attend school.
Note 1—
A family day care residence is a residence at which a family day care educator educates and cares for children as part of a family day care service—see the Children (Education and Care Services) National Law (NSW).
Note 2—
Home-based child care is a type of early education and care facility—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
home business means a business, whether or not involving the sale of items online, carried on in a dwelling, or in a building ancillary to a dwelling, by 1 or more permanent residents of the dwelling and not involving the following—
(a)  the employment of more than 2 persons other than the residents,
(b)  interference with the amenity of the neighbourhood because of the emission of noise, vibration, smell, fumes, smoke, vapour, steam, soot, ash, dust, waste water, waste products, grit or oil, traffic generation or otherwise,
(c)  the exposure to view, from adjacent premises or from a public place, of unsightly matter,
(d)  the exhibition of signage, other than a business identification sign,
(e)  the retail sale of, or the exposure or offer for retail sale of, items, whether goods or materials, not produced at the dwelling or building, other than by online retailing,
but does not include bed and breakfast accommodation, home occupation (sex services) or sex services premises.
Note—
See clause 5.4 for controls relating to the floor area used for a home business.
home industry means an industrial activity, whether or not involving the sale of items online, carried on in a dwelling, or in a building ancillary to a dwelling, by 1 or more permanent residents of the dwelling and not involving the following—
(a)  the employment of more than 2 persons other than the residents,
(b)  interference with the amenity of the neighbourhood because of the emission of noise, vibration, smell, fumes, smoke, vapour, steam, soot, ash, dust, waste water, waste products, grit or oil, traffic generation or otherwise,
(c)  the exposure to view, from adjacent premises or from a public place, of unsightly matter,
(d)  the exhibition of signage, other than a business identification sign,
(e)  the retail sale of, or the exposure or offer for retail sale of, items, whether goods or materials, not produced at the dwelling or building, other than by online retailing,
but does not include bed and breakfast accommodation or sex services premises.
Note—
See clause 5.4 for controls relating to the floor area used for a home industry.
Home industries are a type of light industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
home occupation means an occupation that is carried on in a dwelling, or in a building ancillary to a dwelling, by one or more permanent residents of the dwelling and that does not involve—
(a)  the employment of persons other than those residents, or
(b)  interference with the amenity of the neighbourhood by reason of the emission of noise, vibration, smell, fumes, smoke, vapour, steam, soot, ash, dust, waste water, waste products, grit or oil, traffic generation or otherwise, or
(c)  the display of goods, whether in a window or otherwise, or
(d)  the exhibition of any signage (other than a business identification sign), or
(e)  the sale of items (whether goods or materials), or the exposure or offer for sale of items, by retail,
but does not include bed and breakfast accommodation, home occupation (sex services) or sex services premises.
home occupation (sex services) means the provision of sex services in a dwelling that is a brothel, or in a building that is a brothel and is ancillary to such a dwelling, by no more than 2 permanent residents of the dwelling and that does not involve—
(a)  the employment of persons other than those residents, or
(b)  interference with the amenity of the neighbourhood by reason of the emission of noise, traffic generation or otherwise, or
(c)  the exhibition of any signage, or
(d)  the sale of items (whether goods or materials), or the exposure or offer for sale of items, by retail,
but does not include a home business or sex services premises.
horticulture means the cultivation of fruits, vegetables, mushrooms, nuts, cut flowers and foliage and nursery products for commercial purposes, but does not include a plant nursery, turf farming or viticulture.
Note—
Horticulture is a type of intensive plant agriculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
hospital means a building or place used for the purpose of providing professional health care services (such as preventative or convalescent care, diagnosis, medical or surgical treatment, psychiatric care or care for people with disabilities, or counselling services provided by health care professionals) to people admitted as in-patients (whether or not out-patients are also cared for or treated there), and includes ancillary facilities for (or that consist of) any of the following—
(a)  day surgery, day procedures or health consulting rooms,
(b)  accommodation for nurses or other health care workers,
(c)  accommodation for persons receiving health care or for their visitors,
(d)  shops, kiosks, restaurants or cafes or take away food and drink premises,
(e)  patient transport facilities, including helipads, ambulance facilities and car parking,
(f)  educational purposes or any other health-related use,
(g)  research purposes (whether or not carried out by hospital staff or health care workers or for commercial purposes),
(h)  chapels,
(i)  hospices,
(j)  mortuaries.
Note—
Hospitals are a type of health services facility—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
hostel means premises that are generally staffed by social workers or support providers and at which—
(a)  residential accommodation is provided in dormitories, or on a single or shared basis, or by a combination of them, and
(b)  cooking, dining, laundering, cleaning and other facilities are provided on a shared basis.
Note—
Hostels are a type of residential accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
hotel or motel accommodation means a building or place (whether or not licensed premises under the Liquor Act 2007) that provides temporary or short-term accommodation on a commercial basis and that—
(a)  comprises rooms or self-contained suites, and
(b)  may provide meals to guests or the general public and facilities for the parking of guests’ vehicles,
but does not include backpackers’ accommodation, a boarding house, bed and breakfast accommodation or farm stay accommodation.
Note—
Hotel or motel accommodation is a type of tourist and visitor accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
independent living unit means a dwelling or part of a building, whether or not attached to another dwelling—
(a)  used to house seniors or people with a disability, and
(b)  containing private facilities for cooking, sleeping and bathing, and
(c)  where clothes washing facilities or other facilities for use in connection with the dwelling or part of a building may be provided on a shared basis,
but does not include a hostel.
Note—
Independent living units are a type of seniors housing—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
industrial activity means the manufacturing, production, assembling, altering, formulating, repairing, renovating, ornamenting, finishing, cleaning, washing, dismantling, transforming, processing, recycling, adapting or servicing of, or the research and development of, any goods, substances, food, products or articles for commercial purposes, and includes any storage or transportation associated with any such activity.
industrial retail outlet means a building or place that—
(a)  is used in conjunction with an industry (other than an artisan food and drink industry) or rural industry, and
(b)  is situated on the land on which the industry or rural industry is located, and
(c)  is used for the display or sale (whether by retail or wholesale) of only those goods that have been manufactured on the land on which the industry or rural industry is located,
but does not include a warehouse or distribution centre.
Note—
See clause 5.4 for controls relating to the retail floor area of an industrial retail outlet.
industrial training facility means a building or place used in connection with vocational training in an activity (such as forklift or truck driving, welding or carpentry) that is associated with an industry, rural industry, extractive industry or mining, but does not include an educational establishment, business premises or retail premises.
industry means any of the following—
(a)  general industry,
(b)  heavy industry,
(c)  light industry,
but does not include—
(d)  rural industry, or
(e)  extractive industry, or
(f)  mining.
information and education facility means a building or place used for providing information or education to visitors, and the exhibition or display of items, and includes an art gallery, museum, library, visitor information centre and the like.
intensive livestock agriculture means the keeping or breeding, for commercial purposes, of cattle, poultry, pigs, goats, horses, sheep or other livestock, and includes any of the following—
(a)  dairies (restricted),
(b)  feedlots,
(c)  pig farms,
(d)  poultry farms,
but does not include extensive agriculture, aquaculture or the operation of facilities for drought or similar emergency relief.
Note—
Intensive livestock agriculture is a type of agriculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
intensive plant agriculture means any of the following—
(a)  the cultivation of irrigated crops for commercial purposes (other than irrigated pasture or fodder crops),
(b)  horticulture,
(c)  turf farming,
(d)  viticulture.
Note—
Intensive plant agriculture is a type of agriculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
jetty means a horizontal decked walkway providing access from the shore to the waterway and is generally constructed on a piered or piled foundation.
kiosk means premises that are used for the purposes of selling food, light refreshments and other small convenience items.
Note—
See clause 5.4 for controls relating to the gross floor area of a kiosk.
Kiosks are a type of retail premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
Land Application Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Land Application Map.
Land Reservation Acquisition Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Land Reservation Acquisition Map.
Land Use and Transport Integration Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Land Use and Transport Integration Map.
Land Zoning Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Land Zoning Map.
landholding means an area of land—
(a)  constituted or worked as a single property, and
(b)  if comprising more than 1 lot—the lots are—
(i)  contiguous, or
(ii)  separated only by a road or watercourse.
landscaped area means a part of a site used for growing plants, grasses and trees, but does not include any building, structure or hard paved area.
landscaping material supplies means a building or place used for the storage and sale of landscaping supplies such as soil, gravel, potting mix, mulch, sand, railway sleepers, screenings, rock and the like.
Note—
Landscaping material supplies are a type of retail premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
Lanes Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Lanes Map.
light industry means a building or place used to carry out an industrial activity that does not interfere with the amenity of the neighbourhood by reason of noise, vibration, smell, fumes, smoke, vapour, steam, soot, ash, dust, waste water, waste products, grit or oil, or otherwise, and includes any of the following—
(a)  high technology industry,
(b)  home industry,
(c)  artisan food and drink industry,
(d)  creative industry.
Note—
Light industries are a type of industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
liquid fuel depot means premises used for the bulk storage of petrol, oil, petroleum or other inflammable liquid for wholesale distribution and at which no retail trade is conducted.
Note—
Liquid fuel depots are a type of heavy industrial storage establishment—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
livestock processing industry means a building or place used for the commercial production of products derived from the slaughter of animals (including poultry) or the processing of skins or wool of animals and includes abattoirs, knackeries, tanneries, woolscours and rendering plants.
Note—
Livestock processing industries are a type of rural industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
local distribution premises means a building or place used for the storage or handling of items (whether goods or materials) pending their delivery to people and businesses in the local area, but from which no retail sales are made.
Locality and Site Identification Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Locality and Site Identification Map.
Lot Size Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Lot Size Map. [Not adopted. See clause 4.1]
maintenance, in relation to a heritage item, Aboriginal object or Aboriginal place of heritage significance, or a building, work, archaeological site, tree or place within a heritage conservation area, means ongoing protective care, but does not include the removal or disturbance of existing fabric, alterations (such as carrying out extensions or additions) or the introduction of new materials or technology.
manufactured home has the same meaning as in the Local Government Act 1993.
marina means a permanent boat storage facility (whether located wholly on land, wholly on a waterway or partly on land and partly on a waterway), and includes any of the following associated facilities—
(a)  any facility for the construction, repair, maintenance, storage, sale or hire of boats,
(b)  any facility for providing fuelling, sewage pump-out or other services for boats,
(c)  any facility for launching or landing boats, such as slipways or hoists,
(d)  any car parking or commercial, tourist or recreational or club facility that is ancillary to the boat storage facility,
(e)  any berthing or mooring facilities.
market means an open-air area, or an existing building, that is used for the purpose of selling, exposing or offering goods, merchandise or materials for sale by independent stall holders, and includes temporary structures and existing permanent structures used for that purpose on an intermittent or occasional basis.
Note—
Markets are a type of retail premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
mean high water mark means the position where the plane of the mean high water level of all ordinary local high tides intersects the foreshore, being 1.44m above the zero of Fort Denison Tide Gauge and 0.515m Australian Height Datum.
medical centre means premises that are used for the purpose of providing health services (including preventative care, diagnosis, medical or surgical treatment, counselling or alternative therapies) to out-patients only, where such services are principally provided by health care professionals. It may include the ancillary provision of other health services.
Note—
Medical centres are a type of health services facility—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
mezzanine means an intermediate floor within a room.
mine means any place (including any excavation) where an operation is carried on for mining of any mineral by any method and any place on which any mining related work is carried out, but does not include a place used only for extractive industry.
mine subsidence district means a mine subsidence district proclaimed under section 15 of the Mine Subsidence Compensation Act 1961.
mining means mining carried out under the Mining Act 1992 or the recovery of minerals under the Offshore Minerals Act 1999, and includes—
(a)  the construction, operation and decommissioning of associated works, and
(b)  the rehabilitation of land affected by mining.
Note—
Mining is not a type of industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
mixed use development means a building or place comprising 2 or more different land uses.
mooring means a detached or freestanding apparatus located on or in a waterway and that is capable of securing a vessel, but does not include a mooring pen.
mooring pen means an arrangement of freestanding piles or other restraining devices designed or used for the purpose of berthing a vessel.
mortuary means premises that are used, or intended to be used, for the receiving, preparation, embalming and storage of bodies of deceased persons pending their interment or cremation.
moveable dwelling has the same meaning as in the Local Government Act 1993.
Note—
The term is defined as follows—
moveable dwelling means—
(a)  any tent, or any caravan or other van or other portable device (whether on wheels or not), used for human habitation, or
(b)  a manufactured home, or
(c)  any conveyance, structure or thing of a class or description prescribed by the regulations (under the Local Government Act 1993) for the purposes of this definition.
multi dwelling housing means 3 or more dwellings (whether attached or detached) on one lot of land, each with access at ground level, but does not include a residential flat building.
Note—
Multi dwelling housing is a type of residential accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
native fauna means any animal-life that is indigenous to New South Wales or is known to periodically or occasionally migrate to New South Wales, whether vertebrate (including fish) or invertebrate and in any stage of biological development, but does not include humans.
native flora means any plant-life that is indigenous to New South Wales, whether vascular or non-vascular and in any stage of biological development, and includes fungi and lichens, and marine vegetation within the meaning of Part 7A of the Fisheries Management Act 1994.
native vegetation has the same meaning as in Part 5A of the Local Land Services Act 2013.
navigable waterway means any waterway that is from time to time capable of navigation and is open to or used by the public for navigation, but does not include flood waters that have temporarily flowed over the established bank of a watercourse.
neighbourhood shop means premises used for the purposes of selling general merchandise such as foodstuffs, personal care products, newspapers and the like to provide for the day-to-day needs of people who live or work in the local area, but does not include neighbourhood supermarkets or restricted premises.
Note—
See clause 5.4 for controls relating to the retail floor area of neighbourhood shops.
Neighbourhood shops are a type of shop—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
neighbourhood supermarket means premises the principal purpose of which is the sale of groceries and foodstuffs to provide for the needs of people who live or work in the local area.
Note—
See clause 5.4 for controls relating to the gross floor area of neighbourhood supermarkets.
Neighbourhood supermarkets are a type of shop—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
nominated State heritage item means a heritage item that—
(a)  has been identified as an item of State significance in a publicly exhibited heritage study adopted by the Council, and
(b)  the Council has, by notice in writing to the Heritage Council, nominated as an item of potential State significance.
non-potable water means water that does not meet the standards or values for drinking water recommended from time to time by the National Health and Medical Research Council.
offensive industry means a building or place used to carry out an industrial activity that would, when carried out and when all measures proposed to reduce or minimise its impact on the locality have been employed (including, for example, measures to isolate the activity from existing or likely future development on other land in the locality), emit a polluting discharge (including, for example, noise) in a manner that would have a significant adverse impact in the locality or on existing or likely future development on other land in the locality.
Note—
Offensive industries are a type of heavy industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
offensive storage establishment means a building or place that is used for the storage of goods, materials or products and that would, when all measures proposed to reduce or minimise its impact on the locality have been employed (including, for example, measures to isolate the building or place from existing or likely future development on other land in the locality), emit a polluting discharge (including, for example, noise) in a manner that would have a significant adverse impact in the locality or on existing or likely future development on other land in the locality.
Note—
Offensive storage establishments are a type of heavy industrial storage establishment—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
office premises means a building or place used for the purpose of administrative, clerical, technical, professional or similar activities that do not include dealing with members of the public at the building or place on a direct and regular basis, except where such dealing is a minor activity (by appointment) that is ancillary to the main purpose for which the building or place is used.
Note—
Office premises are a type of commercial premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
open cut mining means mining carried out on, and by excavating, the earth’s surface, but does not include underground mining.
operational land has the same meaning as in the Local Government Act 1993.
Opportunity Sites Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Opportunity Sites Map.
Oxford Street Cultural and Creative Precinct means the land identified as “Oxford Street Cultural and Creative Precinct” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
oyster aquaculture means the cultivation of any species of edible oyster for a commercial purpose.
Note—
Oyster aquaculture is a type of aquaculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
parking space means a space dedicated for the parking of a motor vehicle, including any manoeuvring space and access to it, but does not include a car park.
passenger transport facility means a building or place used for the assembly or dispersal of passengers by any form of transport, including facilities required for parking, manoeuvring, storage or routine servicing of any vehicle that uses the building or place.
people who are socially disadvantaged means—
(a)  people who are disadvantaged because of their alcohol or drug dependence, extreme poverty, psychological disorder or other similar disadvantage, or
(b)  people who require protection because of domestic violence or upheaval.
people with a disability means people of any age who, as a result of having an intellectual, psychiatric, sensory, physical or similar impairment, or a combination of such impairments, either permanently or for an extended period, have substantially limited opportunities to enjoy full and active lives.
pig farm means land that is used to keep or breed pigs for animal production, whether an indoor, outdoor, free-range or other type of operation.
Note—
Pig farms are a type of intensive livestock agriculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
place of public worship means a building or place used for the purpose of religious worship by a congregation or religious group, whether or not the building or place is also used for counselling, social events, instruction or religious training.
Planning Proposal Land means land specified in Schedule 6C.
plant nursery means a building or place the principal purpose of which is the retail sale of plants that are grown or propagated on site or on an adjacent site. It may include the on-site sale of any such plants by wholesale and, if ancillary to the principal purpose for which the building or place is used, the sale of landscape and gardening supplies and equipment and the storage of these items.
Note—
Plant nurseries are a type of retail premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
pond-based aquaculture means aquaculture undertaken predominantly in ponds, raceways or dams (including any part of the aquaculture undertaken in tanks such as during the hatchery or depuration phases), but not including natural water-based aquaculture.
Note—
Pond-based aquaculture is a type of aquaculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary. Typical pond-based aquaculture is the pond culture of prawns, yabbies or silver perch.
port facilities means any of the following facilities at or in the vicinity of a designated port within the meaning of section 47 of the Ports and Maritime Administration Act 1995—
(a)  facilities for the embarkation or disembarkation of passengers onto or from any vessels, including public ferry wharves,
(b)  facilities for the loading or unloading of freight onto or from vessels and associated receival, land transport and storage facilities,
(c)  wharves for commercial fishing operations,
(d)  refuelling, launching, berthing, mooring, storage or maintenance facilities for any vessel,
(e)  sea walls or training walls,
(f)  administration buildings, communication, security and power supply facilities, roads, rail lines, pipelines, fencing, lighting or car parks.
potable water means water that meets the standards or values for drinking water recommended from time to time by the National Health and Medical Research Council.
poultry farm means land that is used to keep or breed poultry for animal production, whether for meat or egg production (or both) and whether an indoor, outdoor, free-range or other type of operation.
Note—
Poultry farms are a type of intensive livestock agriculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
primitive camping ground means a camping ground approved under the Local Government Act 1993, Chapter 7, Part 1 as a primitive camping ground.
Note—
Primitive camping ground is a type of camping ground—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
private open space means an area external to a building (including an area of land, terrace, balcony or deck) that is used for private outdoor purposes ancillary to the use of the building.
property vegetation plan mean a property vegetation plan approved under Part 4 of the Native Vegetation Act 2003 before the repeal of that Act (as continued in force by the regulations under the Biodiversity Conservation Act 2016).
pub means licensed premises under the Liquor Act 2007 the principal purpose of which is the retail sale of liquor for consumption on the premises, whether or not the premises include hotel or motel accommodation and whether or not food is sold or entertainment is provided on the premises.
Note—
Pubs are a type of food and drink premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
public administration building means a building used as offices or for administrative or other like purposes by the Crown, a statutory body, a council or an organisation established for public purposes, and includes a courthouse or a police station.
public authority has the same meaning as in the Act.
public land has the same meaning as in the Local Government Act 1993.
public reserve has the same meaning as in the Local Government Act 1993.
Public Transport Accessibility Level Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Public Transport Accessibility Level Map.
public utility undertaking means any of the following undertakings carried on or permitted to be carried on by or by authority of any Public Service agency or under the authority of or in pursuance of any Commonwealth or State Act—
(a)  railway, road transport, water transport, air transport, wharf or river undertakings,
(b)  undertakings for the supply of water, hydraulic power, electricity or gas or the provision of sewerage or drainage services,
and a reference to a person carrying on a public utility undertaking includes a reference to a council, electricity supply authority, Public Service agency, corporation, firm or authority carrying on the undertaking.
rainwater tank means a tank designed for the storage of rainwater gathered on the land on which the tank is situated.
recreation area means a place used for outdoor recreation that is normally open to the public, and includes—
(a)  a children’s playground, or
(b)  an area used for community sporting activities, or
(c)  a public park, reserve or garden or the like,
and any ancillary buildings, but does not include a recreation facility (indoor), recreation facility (major) or recreation facility (outdoor).
recreation facility (indoor) means a building or place used predominantly for indoor recreation, whether or not operated for the purposes of gain, including a squash court, indoor swimming pool, gymnasium, table tennis centre, health studio, bowling alley, ice rink or any other building or place of a like character used for indoor recreation, but does not include an entertainment facility, a recreation facility (major) or a registered club.
recreation facility (major) means a building or place used for large-scale sporting or recreation activities that are attended by large numbers of people whether regularly or periodically, and includes theme parks, sports stadiums, showgrounds, racecourses and motor racing tracks.
recreation facility (outdoor) means a building or place (other than a recreation area) used predominantly for outdoor recreation, whether or not operated for the purposes of gain, including a golf course, golf driving range, mini-golf centre, tennis court, paint-ball centre, lawn bowling green, outdoor swimming pool, equestrian centre, skate board ramp, go-kart track, rifle range, water-ski centre or any other building or place of a like character used for outdoor recreation (including any ancillary buildings), but does not include an entertainment facility or a recreation facility (major).
Reduced Level (RL) means height above the Australian Height Datum, being the datum surface approximating mean sea level that was adopted by the National Mapping Council of Australia in May 1971.
registered club means a club that holds a club licence under the Liquor Act 2007.
registered community housing provider has the same meaning as in the Community Housing Providers (Adoption of National Law) Act 2012, section 13.
relic has the same meaning as in the Heritage Act 1977.
Note—
The term is defined as follows—
relic means any deposit, artefact, object or material evidence that—
(a)  relates to the settlement of the area that comprises New South Wales, not being Aboriginal settlement, and
(b)  is of State or local heritage significance.
research station means a building or place operated by a public authority for the principal purpose of agricultural, environmental, fisheries, forestry, minerals or soil conservation research, and includes any associated facility for education, training, administration or accommodation.
residential accommodation means a building or place used predominantly as a place of residence, and includes any of the following—
(a)  attached dwellings,
(b)  boarding houses,
(baa)  co-living housing,
(c)  dual occupancies,
(d)  dwelling houses,
(e)  group homes,
(f)  hostels,
(faa)    (Repealed)
(g)  multi dwelling housing,
(h)  residential flat buildings,
(i)  rural workers’ dwellings,
(j)  secondary dwellings,
(k)  semi-detached dwellings,
(l)  seniors housing,
(m)  shop top housing,
but does not include tourist and visitor accommodation or caravan parks.
residential care facility means accommodation for seniors or people with a disability that includes—
(a)  meals and cleaning services, and
(b)  personal care or nursing care, or both, and
(c)  appropriate staffing, furniture, furnishings and equipment for the provision of that accommodation and care,
but does not include a dwelling, hostel, hospital or psychiatric facility.
Note—
Residential care facilities are a type of seniors housing—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
residential flat building means a building containing 3 or more dwellings, but does not include an attached dwelling, co-living housing or multi dwelling housing.
Note—
Residential flat buildings are a type of residential accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
resource recovery facility means a building or place used for the recovery of resources from waste, including works or activities such as separating and sorting, processing or treating the waste, composting, temporary storage, transfer or sale of recovered resources, energy generation from gases and water treatment, but not including re-manufacture or disposal of the material by landfill or incineration.
Note—
Resource recovery facilities are a type of waste or resource management facility—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
respite day care centre means a building or place that is used for the care of seniors or people who have a disability and that does not provide overnight accommodation for people other than those related to the owner or operator of the centre.
restaurant or cafe means a building or place the principal purpose of which is the preparation and serving, on a retail basis, of food and drink to people for consumption on the premises, whether or not liquor, take away meals and drinks or entertainment are also provided, but does not include the preparation and serving of food and drink to people that occurs as part of—
(a)  an artisan food and drink industry, or
(b)  farm gate premises.
Note—
Restaurants or cafes are a type of food and drink premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
restricted premises means premises that, due to their nature, restrict access to patrons or customers over 18 years of age, and includes sex shops and similar premises, but does not include a pub, hotel or motel accommodation, home occupation (sex services) or sex services premises.
restriction facilities means facilities where animals are constrained for management purposes, including milking sheds, pads, feed stalls, holding yards and paddocks where the number of livestock exceeds the ability of vegetation to recover from the effects of grazing in a normal growing season, but does not include facilities for drought or similar emergency relief.
retail premises means a building or place used for the purpose of selling items by retail, or hiring or displaying items for the purpose of selling them or hiring them out, whether the items are goods or materials (or whether also sold by wholesale), and includes any of the following—
(a), (b)    (Repealed)
(c)  food and drink premises,
(d)  garden centres,
(e)  hardware and building supplies,
(f)  kiosks,
(g)  landscaping material supplies,
(h)  markets,
(i)  plant nurseries,
(j)  roadside stalls,
(k)  rural supplies,
(l)  shops,
(la)  specialised retail premises,
(m)  timber yards,
(n)  vehicle sales or hire premises,
but does not include farm gate premises, highway service centres, service stations, industrial retail outlets or restricted premises.
Note—
Retail premises are a type of commercial premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
Retail Premises Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Retail Premises Map.
road means a public road or a private road within the meaning of the Roads Act 1993, and includes a classified road.
roadside stall means a place or temporary structure used for the retail sale of agricultural produce or hand crafted goods (or both) produced from the property on which the stall is situated or from an adjacent property.
Note—
See clause 5.4 for controls relating to the gross floor area of roadside stalls.
Roadside stalls are a type of retail premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
rural industry means the handling, treating, production, processing, storage or packing of animal or plant agricultural products for commercial purposes, and includes any of the following—
(a)  agricultural produce industries,
(b)  livestock processing industries,
(c)  composting facilities and works (including the production of mushroom substrate),
(d)  sawmill or log processing works,
(e)  stock and sale yards,
(f)  the regular servicing or repairing of plant or equipment used for the purposes of a rural enterprise.
Note—
Rural industries are not a type of industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
rural supplies means a building or place used for the display, sale or hire of stockfeeds, grains, seed, fertilizers, veterinary supplies and other goods or materials used in farming and primary industry production.
Note—
Rural supplies are a type of retail premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
rural worker’s dwelling means a building or place that is additional to a dwelling house on the same lot and that is used predominantly as a place of residence by persons employed, whether on a long-term or short-term basis, for the purpose of agriculture or a rural industry on that land.
Note—
Rural workers’ dwellings are a type of residential accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
sawmill or log processing works means a building or place used for handling, cutting, chipping, pulping or otherwise processing logs, baulks, branches or stumps, principally derived from surrounding districts, into timber or other products derived from wood.
Note—
Sawmill or log processing works are a type of rural industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
school means a government school or non-government school within the meaning of the Education Act 1990.
Note—
Schools are a type of educational establishment—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
school-based child care means a building or place within a school that is used to provide out-of-school-hours care (including vacation care) for school children only.
Note 1—
Accordingly, a building or place within a school that is used to provide out-of-school-hours care for both school children and pre-school children is not school-based child care.
Note 2—
School-based child care is a type of early education and care facility—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
secondary dwelling means a self-contained dwelling that—
(a)  is established in conjunction with another dwelling (the principal dwelling), and
(b)  is on the same lot of land as the principal dwelling, and
(c)  is located within, or is attached to, or is separate from, the principal dwelling.
Note—
See clauses 5.4 and 5.5 for controls relating to the total floor area of secondary dwellings.
Secondary dwellings are a type of residential accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
self-storage units means premises that consist of individual enclosed compartments for storing goods or materials (other than hazardous or offensive goods or materials).
Note—
Self-storage units are a type of storage premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
semi-detached dwelling means a dwelling that is on its own lot of land and is attached to only one other dwelling.
Note—
Semi-detached dwellings are a type of residential accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
seniors housing means a building or place that is—
(a)  a residential care facility, or
(b)  a hostel within the meaning of State Environmental Planning Policy (Housing) 2021, Chapter 3, Part 5, or
(c)  a group of independent living units, or
(d)  a combination of any of the buildings or places referred to in paragraphs (a)–(c),
and that is, or is intended to be, used permanently for—
(e)  seniors or people who have a disability, or
(f)  people who live in the same household with seniors or people who have a disability, or
(g)  staff employed to assist in the administration of the building or place or in the provision of services to persons living in the building or place,
but does not include a hospital.
Note—
Seniors housing is a type of residential accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
service station means a building or place used for the sale by retail of fuels and lubricants for motor vehicles, whether or not the building or place is also used for any one or more of the following—
(a)  the ancillary sale by retail of spare parts and accessories for motor vehicles,
(b)  the cleaning of motor vehicles,
(c)  installation of accessories,
(d)  inspecting, repairing and servicing of motor vehicles (other than body building, panel beating, spray painting, or chassis restoration),
(e)  the ancillary retail selling or hiring of general merchandise or services or both.
serviced apartment means a building (or part of a building) providing self-contained accommodation to tourists or visitors on a commercial basis and that is regularly serviced or cleaned by the owner or manager of the building or part of the building or the owner’s or manager’s agents.
Note—
Serviced apartments are a type of tourist and visitor accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
sewage reticulation system means a building or place used for the collection and transfer of sewage to a sewage treatment plant or water recycling facility for treatment, or transfer of the treated waste for use or disposal, including associated—
(a)  pipelines and tunnels, and
(b)  pumping stations, and
(c)  dosing facilities, and
(d)  odour control works, and
(e)  sewage overflow structures, and
(f)  vent stacks.
Note—
Sewage reticulation systems are a type of sewerage system—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
sewage treatment plant means a building or place used for the treatment and disposal of sewage, whether or not the facility supplies recycled water for use as an alternative water supply.
Note—
Sewage treatment plants are a type of sewerage system—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
sewerage system means any of the following—
(a)  biosolids treatment facility,
(b)  sewage reticulation system,
(c)  sewage treatment plant,
(d)  water recycling facility,
(e)  a building or place that is a combination of any of the things referred to in paragraphs (a)–(d).
sex services means sexual acts or sexual services in exchange for payment.
sex services premises means a brothel, but does not include home occupation (sex services).
shop means premises that sell merchandise such as groceries, personal care products, clothing, music, homewares, stationery, electrical goods or the like or that hire any such merchandise, and includes a neighbourhood shop and neighbourhood supermarket, but does not include food and drink premises or restricted premises.
Note—
Shops are a type of retail premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
shop top housing means one or more dwellings located above the ground floor of a building, where at least the ground floor is used for commercial premises or health services facilities.
Note—
Shop top housing is a type of residential accommodation—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
signage means any sign, notice, device, representation or advertisement that advertises or promotes any goods, services or events and any structure or vessel that is principally designed for, or that is used for, the display of signage, and includes any of the following—
(a)  an advertising structure,
(b)  a building identification sign,
(c)  a business identification sign,
but does not include a traffic sign or traffic control facilities.
site area means the area of any land on which development is or is to be carried out. The land may include the whole or part of one lot, or more than one lot if they are contiguous to each other, but does not include the area of any land on which development is not permitted to be carried out under this Plan.
Note—
The effect of this definition is varied by clause 4.5 for the purpose of the determination of permitted floor space area for proposed development.
site coverage means the proportion of a site area covered by buildings. However, the following are not included for the purpose of calculating site coverage—
(a)  any basement,
(b)  any part of an awning that is outside the outer walls of a building and that adjoins the street frontage or other site boundary,
(c)  any eaves,
(d)  unenclosed balconies, decks, pergolas and the like.
small bar means a small bar within the meaning of the Liquor Act 2007.
Note—
Small bars are a type of food and drink premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
social housing provider has the same meaning as in State Environmental Planning Policy (Housing) 2021.
southern employment land means the land identified as “Southern Employment Lands” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
spa pool has the same meaning as in the Swimming Pools Act 1992.
Note—
The term is defined to include any excavation, structure or vessel in the nature of a spa pool, flotation tank, tub or the like.
special character area means an area shown as a special character area on the Special Character Areas Map.
Special Character Areas Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Special Character Areas Map.
specialised retail premises means a building or place the principal purpose of which is the sale, hire or display of goods that are of a size, weight or quantity, that requires—
(a)  a large area for handling, display or storage, or
(b)  direct vehicular access to the site of the building or place by members of the public for the purpose of loading or unloading such goods into or from their vehicles after purchase or hire,
but does not include a building or place used for the sale of foodstuffs or clothing unless their sale is ancillary to the sale, hire or display of other goods referred to in this definition.
Note—
Examples of goods that may be sold at specialised retail premises include automotive parts and accessories, household appliances and fittings, furniture, homewares, office equipment, outdoor and recreation equipment, pet supplies and party supplies.
Specialised retail premises are a type of retail premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
stock and sale yard means a building or place that is used on a commercial basis for the purpose of offering livestock or poultry for sale and that may be used for the short-term storage and watering of stock.
Note—
Stock and sale yards are a type of rural industry—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
storage premises means a building or place used for the storage of goods, materials, plant or machinery for commercial purposes and where the storage is not ancillary to any industry, business premises or retail premises on the same parcel of land, and includes self-storage units, but does not include a heavy industrial storage establishment, local distribution premises or a warehouse or distribution centre.
storey means a space within a building that is situated between one floor level and the floor level next above, or if there is no floor above, the ceiling or roof above, but does not include—
(a)  a space that contains only a lift shaft, stairway or meter room, or
(b)  a mezzanine, or
(c)  an attic.
Sun Access Protection Map means the Sydney Local Environmental Plan 2012 Sun Access Protection Map.
swimming pool has the same meaning as in the Swimming Pools Act 1992.
Note—
The term is defined as follows—
swimming pool means an excavation, structure or vessel—
(a)  that is capable of being filled with water to a depth of 300 millimetres or more, and
(b)  that is solely or principally used, or that is designed, manufactured or adapted to be solely or principally used, for the purpose of swimming, wading, paddling or any other human aquatic activity,
and includes a spa pool, but does not include a spa bath, anything that is situated within a bathroom or anything declared by the regulations made under the Swimming Pools Act 1992 not to be a swimming pool for the purposes of that Act.
take away food and drink premises means premises that are predominantly used for the preparation and retail sale of food or drink (or both) for immediate consumption away from the premises.
Note—
Take away food and drink premises are a type of food and drink premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
tank-based aquaculture means aquaculture undertaken exclusively in tanks, but not including natural water-based aquaculture.
Note—
Tank-based aquaculture is a type of aquaculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary. Typical tank-based aquaculture is the tank culture of barramundi or abalone.
telecommunications facility means—
(a)  any part of the infrastructure of a telecommunications network, or
(b)  any line, cable, optical fibre, fibre access node, interconnect point equipment, apparatus, tower, mast, antenna, dish, tunnel, duct, hole, pit, pole or other structure in connection with a telecommunications network, or
(c)  any other thing used in or in connection with a telecommunications network.
telecommunications network means a system, or series of systems, that carries, or is capable of carrying, communications by means of guided or unguided electromagnetic energy, or both.
temporary structure has the same meaning as in the Act.
Note—
The term is defined as follows—
temporary structure includes a booth, tent or other temporary enclosure (whether or not part of the booth, tent or enclosure is permanent), and also includes a mobile structure.
the Act means the Environmental Planning and Assessment Act 1979.
timber yard means a building or place the principal purpose of which is the sale of sawn, dressed or treated timber, wood fibre boards or similar timber products. It may include the cutting of such timber, boards or products to order and the sale of hardware, paint, tools and materials used in conjunction with the use and treatment of timber.
Note—
Timber yards are a type of retail premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
tourist and visitor accommodation means a building or place that provides temporary or short-term accommodation on a commercial basis, and includes any of the following—
(a)  backpackers’ accommodation,
(b)  bed and breakfast accommodation,
(c)  farm stay accommodation,
(d)  hotel or motel accommodation,
(e)  serviced apartments,
but does not include—
(f)  camping grounds, or
(g)  caravan parks, or
(h)  eco-tourist facilities.
tower cluster area means an area identified as a “Tower Cluster Area” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
transport depot means a building or place used for the parking or servicing of motor powered or motor drawn vehicles used in connection with a business, industry, shop or passenger or freight transport undertaking.
truck depot means a building or place used for the servicing and parking of trucks, earthmoving machinery and the like.
turf farming means the commercial cultivation of turf for sale and the removal of turf for that purpose.
Note—
Turf farming is a type of intensive plant agriculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
Ultimo-Pyrmont means the land identified as “Ultimo-Pyrmont” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
underground mining means—
(a)  mining carried out beneath the earth’s surface, including bord and pillar mining, longwall mining, top-level caving, sub-level caving and auger mining, and
(b)  shafts, drill holes, gas and water drainage works, surface rehabilitation works and access pits associated with that mining (whether carried out on or beneath the earth’s surface),
but does not include open cut mining.
vehicle body repair workshop means a building or place used for the repair of vehicles or agricultural machinery, involving body building, panel building, panel beating, spray painting or chassis restoration.
vehicle repair station means a building or place used for the purpose of carrying out repairs to, or the selling and fitting of accessories to, vehicles or agricultural machinery, but does not include a vehicle body repair workshop or vehicle sales or hire premises.
vehicle sales or hire premises means a building or place used for the display, sale or hire of motor vehicles, caravans, boats, trailers, agricultural machinery and the like, whether or not accessories are sold or displayed there.
Note—
Vehicle sales or hire premises are a type of retail premises—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
veterinary hospital means a building or place used for diagnosing or surgically or medically treating animals, whether or not animals are kept on the premises for the purpose of treatment.
viticulture means the cultivation of grapes for use in the commercial production of fresh or dried fruit or wine.
Note—
Viticulture is a type of intensive plant agriculture—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
warehouse or distribution centre means a building or place used mainly or exclusively for storing or handling items (whether goods or materials) pending their sale, but from which no retail sales are made, but does not include local distribution premises.
waste disposal facility means a building or place used for the disposal of waste by landfill, incineration or other means, including such works or activities as recycling, resource recovery and other resource management activities, energy generation from gases, leachate management, odour control and the winning of extractive material to generate a void for disposal of waste or to cover waste after its disposal.
Note—
Waste disposal facilities are a type of waste or resource management facility—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
waste or resource management facility means any of the following—
(a)  a resource recovery facility,
(b)  a waste disposal facility,
(c)  a waste or resource transfer station,
(d)  a building or place that is a combination of any of the things referred to in paragraphs (a)–(c).
waste or resource transfer station means a building or place used for the collection and transfer of waste material or resources, including the receipt, sorting, compacting, temporary storage and distribution of waste or resources and the loading or unloading of waste or resources onto or from road or rail transport.
Note—
Waste or resource transfer stations are a type of waste or resource management facility—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
water recreation structure means a structure used primarily for recreational purposes that has a direct structural connection between the shore and the waterway, and may include a pier, wharf, jetty or boat launching ramp.
water recycling facility means a building or place used for the treatment of sewage effluent, stormwater or waste water for use as an alternative supply to mains water, groundwater or river water (including, in particular, sewer mining works), whether the facility stands alone or is associated with other development, and includes associated—
(a)  retention structures, and
(b)  treatment works, and
(c)  irrigation schemes.
Note—
Water recycling facilities are a type of sewerage system—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
water reticulation system means a building or place used for the transport of water, including pipes, tunnels, canals, pumping stations, related electricity infrastructure and dosing facilities.
Note—
Water reticulation systems are a type of water supply system—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
water storage facility means a dam, weir or reservoir for the collection and storage of water, and includes associated monitoring or gauging equipment.
Note—
Water storage facilities are a type of water supply system—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
water supply system means any of the following—
(a)  a water reticulation system,
(b)  a water storage facility,
(c)  a water treatment facility,
(d)  a building or place that is a combination of any of the things referred to in paragraphs (a)–(c).
water treatment facility means a building or place used for the treatment of water (such as a desalination plant or a recycled or reclaimed water plant) whether the water produced is potable or not, and includes residuals treatment, storage and disposal facilities, but does not include a water recycling facility.
Note—
Water treatment facilities are a type of water supply system—see the definition of that term in this Dictionary.
waterbody means a waterbody (artificial) or waterbody (natural).
waterbody (artificial) or artificial waterbody means an artificial body of water, including any constructed waterway, canal, inlet, bay, channel, dam, pond, lake or artificial wetland, but does not include a dry detention basin or other stormwater management construction that is only intended to hold water intermittently.
waterbody (natural) or natural waterbody means a natural body of water, whether perennial or intermittent, fresh, brackish or saline, the course of which may have been artificially modified or diverted onto a new course, and includes a river, creek, stream, lake, lagoon, natural wetland, estuary, bay, inlet or tidal waters (including the sea).
watercourse means any river, creek, stream or chain of ponds, whether artificially modified or not, in which water usually flows, either continuously or intermittently, in a defined bed or channel, but does not include a waterbody (artificial).
Waterloo Estate (South)—Area 1 means land identified as “Waterloo Estate (South)—Area 1” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
Waterloo Estate (South)—Area 2 means the following land in Waterloo—
(a)  Lot 15, DP 10721, 111 Cooper Street,
(b)  Lots 6, 7 and 9, DP 10721 and Lot 8, DP 1147179, 221–223 Cope Street,
(c)  Lots 4 and 5, DP 10721, 225–227 Cope Street,
(d)  Lots 1–41, SP 79210, 233 Cope Street,
(e)  Lots 1–20, SP 96906, 291 George Street,
(f)  Lots 1–58, SP 69476, 110 Wellington Street,
(g)  Lots 10 and 11, DP 10721, 116 Wellington Street.
Waterloo Metro Quarter means the land identified as “Waterloo Metro Quarter” on the Locality and Site Identification Map.
waterway means the whole or any part of a watercourse, wetland, waterbody (artificial) or waterbody (natural).
wetland means—
(a)  natural wetland, including marshes, mangroves, backwaters, billabongs, swamps, sedgelands, wet meadows or wet heathlands that form a shallow waterbody (up to 2 metres in depth) when inundated cyclically, intermittently or permanently with fresh, brackish or salt water, and where the inundation determines the type and productivity of the soils and the plant and animal communities, or
(b)  artificial wetland, including marshes, swamps, wet meadows, sedgelands or wet heathlands that form a shallow waterbody (up to 2 metres in depth) when inundated cyclically, intermittently or permanently with water, and are constructed and vegetated with wetland plant communities.
wharf or boating facilities means a wharf or any of the following facilities associated with a wharf or boating that are not port facilities—
(a)  facilities for the embarkation or disembarkation of passengers onto or from any vessels, including public ferry wharves,
(b)  facilities for the loading or unloading of freight onto or from vessels and associated receival, land transport and storage facilities,
(c)  wharves for commercial fishing operations,
(d)  refuelling, launching, berthing, mooring, storage or maintenance facilities for any vessel,
(e)  sea walls or training walls,
(f)  administration buildings, communication, security and power supply facilities, roads, rail lines, pipelines, fencing, lighting or car parks.
wholesale supplies means a building or place used for the display, sale or hire of goods or materials by wholesale only to businesses that have an Australian Business Number registered under the A New Tax System (Australian Business Number) Act 1999 of the Commonwealth.





List of mobility parking spaces

Address Location Parking space

Alexandria 164 Kingsclear Road

West side, between Henderson Lane and Henderson Road Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.2m wide by 4m long

Alexandria 142 Henderson Road

South side, between Mitchell Road and Alexander Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.7m wide by 6.6m long

Annandale rear of Webber's Carpet Warehouse Nelson Street

East side, corner of Nelson Street and Chapman Road Google Street View

290-degree parking spaces, 3.3m wide by 5.4m long

Annandale 6 Chapman Road

East side, Chapman Road cul de sac near the lightrail bridge Google Street View

190-degree parking space, 4.1m wide by 5.4m long

Annandale 2-2A Chapman Road

East side, opposite Federal Park Playground Google Street View

290-degree parking spaces, 3.5m wide by 4.6m long

Beaconsfield Reserve Street

South side, between Botany Road and Beaconsfield Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7.8m long

Camperdown 100 Mallett Street

East side, between Hampshire Lane and Fowler Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6.8m long

Camperdown 54-60 Briggs Street

North side, between Church Street and Missenden Road Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Camperdown 46 Dunblane Street

North side, between Missenden Road and Church Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 4.8m long

Camperdown 92 Church Street

East side, between Dunblane Street and Lucas Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 8.5m long 30 minute parking

Camperdown 4 Lambert Street

North side, between Lyons Road and Layton Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.7m long

Centennial Park 55 Moore Park Road

South side, between Cook Road and Poate Road Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.6m wide by 7.4m long

Centennial Park 60 Cook Road

West side, between Furber Road and Furber Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 4.4m long

Centennial Park 41 Robertson Road

South side, between Dibbs Street and Oxley Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long

Chippendale Myrtle Street

North side, between City Road and Paints Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.8m long

Chippendale 71 Regent Street

West side, between Kensington Street and Outram Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.5m wide by 6.2m long

Darlinghurst 341 Bourke Street

West side, between Foley Street and Burton Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 8.1m long

Darlinghurst 407 South Dowling Street

West side, between Flinders Street and Hannam Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Darlinghurst 301 Forbes Street

West side, between Foley Street and Burton Street Google Street View

760-degree parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 4.8m long 60 degree angle parking front to kerb. Vehicles under 6 metres only

Darlinghurst 77 Surrey Street

North side, between Caldwell Street and Surry Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.5m long

Darlinghurst Caldwell Street

West side, between Surry Street and Nimrod Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 4.2m long

Darlinghurst 43 Boundary Street

North side, between Glenview Lane and Glenview Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7m long

Darlinghurst 265 Victoria Street

East side, between Liverpool Street and Burton Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Darlinghurst St Vincent's Hospital Victoria Street

East side, between Burton Street and Victoria Street Google Street View

145-degree parking space, 3.7m wide by 8.2m long 45 degree angle parking rear to kerb. Vehicles under 6 metres only

Darlinghurst 26 Womerah Avenue

South side, between Oswald Lane and Craigend Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.5m long

Darlington 121 Darlington Road

South side, between Codrington Street and Golden Grove Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long Mobility parking 830am to 530pm Monday to Friday

Darlington Darlington Road

South side, between Golden Grove Street and King Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6.5m long

Darlington 314 Wilson Street

North side, between Golden Grove Street and Codrington Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.6m long

Darlington 502 Wilson Street

North side, between Sheppard Street and Sheppard Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.6m long

Darlington 45 Golden Grove Street

West side, between Wilson Street and Abercrombie Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 2.4m wide by 3.6m long

Darlington 54 Calder Road

North side, between Shephard Street and Shepard Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.2m wide by 8.6m long

Darlington 129-131 Little Eveleigh Street

South side, between Lawson Street and Ivy Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.4m wide by 6.4m long

Darlington 30 Thomas Street

West side, between Vine Street and Ivy Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.4m long

Darlington 108-118 Shephard Street

East side, between Vine Street and Ivy Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 2m wide by 6.2m long

Darlington 444 Wilson Street

North side, between Codrington Street and Sheppard Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.2m long

Darlington Darlington Public School Abercrombie Street

North side, between Golden Grove Street and Codrington Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6.8m long Mobility parking only 8am to 6pm school days

Dawes Point 36-64 George Street

West side, between Cahill Walk and Lower Fort Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 4.4m wide by 7.2m long

Dawes Point 5 Hickson Road

South side, between Napoleon Street and Pottinger Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.5m wide by 6.4m long

Dawes Point 5 Hickson Road

South side, between Napoleon Street and Pottinger Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.5m wide by 6.8m long

Dawes Point 5 Hickson Road

South side, between Pottinger Street and Napoleon Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 2.5m wide by 6.1m long

Dawes Point 11 Hickson Road

East side, between Lower Fort Road and Hickson Road Google Street View

445-degree parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 4.9m long

Elizabeth Bay 7 Ithaca Road

East side, between The Esplanade and Ithaca Road Google Street View

190-degree parking space, 3.7m wide by 5.1m long 90 degree angle parking rear to kerb. Vehicles under 6 metres only

Elizabeth Bay 50-58 Macleay Street

East side, between Fitzroy Gardens and Greenknowe Avenue Google Street View

3 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Elizabeth Bay 39 Elizabeth Bay Road

East side, between Greenknowe Avenue and Amos Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.7m long

Erskineville 37 Ashmore Street

South side, between Mitchell Road and cul de sac Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long

Erskineville Shop 14 Coulson Street

South side, between Mitchell Road and Eve Street Google Street View

160-degree parking space, 3.5m wide by 6m long 60 degree angle parking rear to kerb

Erskineville 51 Ashmore Street

South side, between Mitchell Road and cul de sac Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.6m long

Erskineville 24 Ashmore Street

South side, between Binning Street and Binning Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.4m long

Erskineville Angel Street

West side, between Newman Lane and Newman Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.8m long

Erskineville Erskineville Mosque Charles Street

West side, between Erskineville Road and Albert Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.8m long

Erskineville 8 Flora Street

East side, between MacDonald Street and Coulson Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.2m wide by 7.3m long

Erskineville 201 Rochford Street

West side, between King Street and Knight Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Erskineville 29 Swanson Street

South side, between Elliott Avenue and Malcolm Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3m wide by 7.8m long

Erskineville 89 Erskineville Road

South side, between George Street and Morrissey Road Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.9m wide by 5.5m long Mobility parking only, 830am to 6pm Monday to Friday and 830am to 1230pm Saturdays

Erskineville Elliott Avenue

North side, between Binning Street and Swanson Street Google Street View

3 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 7m long

Erskineville 8A Amy Street

East side, between MacDonald Street and Knight Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7m long

Eveleigh 41 Rowley Lane

West side, between Rowley Street and Alexander Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7.2m long

Forest Lodge 9-10 Arthur Street

East side, between Albert Street and Wigram Road Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 7.2m long

Forest Lodge 20 Forest Street

West side, between Arundel Street and St Johns Road Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7.8m long

Forest Lodge 16 Albert Street

South side, between Arthur Street and Upper Road Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.2m long

Forest Lodge 3 Albert Street

North side, between Upper Road and Arthur Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Glebe 94 Campbell Street

West side, between Norton Street and Saint Johns Road Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long

Glebe 87 Campbell Street

East side, between Norton Street and Mitchell Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.9m long

Glebe 31 Campbell Street

East side, between Mitchell Street and Cowper Street Google Street View

3 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.1m long

Glebe Forsyth Street

South side, *parking bay east of Taylor Street near glebe for Google Street View

190-degree parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long

Glebe 16 Leichhardt Street

South side, parking bay near Blackwattle Bay Park Google Street View

190-degree parking space, 3.3m wide by 5.7m long

Glebe Cardigan Street

South side, between Bellevue Lane and Wentworth Park Road Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.6m long

Glebe 21 Mitchell Street

North side, between Wentworth Street and Phillip Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.5m long

Glebe 58 Mitchell Street

South side, between Phillip Street and Broughton Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.8m long

Glebe 37 Mitchell Street

North side, between Phillip Street and Broughton Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.6m long

Glebe 49 Mitchell Street

North side, between Phillip Street and Broughton Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.4m long

Glebe 11 Phillip Street

East side, between Mitchell Lane East and Cowper Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.2m long

Glebe 43 Cowper Street

North side, between Wentworth Street and Phillip Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Glebe 11 Broughton Street

East side, between Cowper Lane and Mitchell Lane East Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.6m long

Glebe 1 Phillip Street

East side, between Mitchell Lane East and Cowper Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.2m long

Glebe 21 Broughton Street

East side, between Mitchell Lane West and Saint Johns Road Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.8m long

Glebe 84 Saint Johns Road

South side, between Glebe Street and Bernard Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.3m long

Glebe 16 Broughton Street

West side, between Cowper Lane and Mitchell Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.5m long

Glebe 24 Broughton Street

West side, between Cowper Lane and Mitchell Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Glebe 75 Saint Johns Road

North side, between Glebe Point Road and Purves Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 9.2m long

Glebe 128 Saint Johns Road

South side, between Glebe Point Road and Derwent Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2m wide by 6.9m long

Glebe 10 Colbourne Avenue

West side, between Saint Johns Road and Lyndhurst Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.9m long

Glebe 62 Derwent Street

West side, between Mitchell Road and Saint Johns Road Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 8.3m long

Glebe 451 Glebe Point Road

East side, between Federal Road and Mary Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.2m wide by 6.8m long

Glebe 10 Bellevue Street

West side, between Saint Johns Road and Lyndhurst Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Glebe 45 Westmoreland Street

East side, between Saint Johns Road and Mitchell Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 10.1m long

Glebe 117 Cowper Street

North side, between Campbell Street and Campbell Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Glebe 18 Westmoreland Street

West side, between Mitchell Street and Saint Johns Road Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Glebe 96 Glebe Street

West side, between Cowper Street and Mitchell Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.8m long

Glebe 119 Glebe Street

East side, between Norton Street and Mitchell Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6.2m long

Glebe 65 Arundel Street

South side, between Derwent Street and Seamer Street Google Street View

190-degree parking space, 4.8m wide by 4.9m long

Glebe 45 Arundel Street

North side, between Derwent Street and Seamer Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.2m wide by 6.5m long

Glebe Catherine Street

North side, between Mount Vernon Street and Mount Vernon Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.5m wide by 10.1m long

Glebe 3 Westmoreland Street

East side, between Mitchell Street and Catherine Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 4.7m long

Glebe 48 Saint Johns Road

South side, between Phillip Street and Wentworth Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long

Glebe 76 Forsyth Street

South side, between Taylor Street and Avon Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.4m long

Glebe 42 Allen Street

East side, between Cotter Lane and Park Avenue Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7.8m long

Glebe 63 Westmoreland Street

East side, between Saint Johns Road and Mitchell Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Glebe 315 Glebe Point Road

East side, between Ferry Road and Palmerston Avenue Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.2m wide by 6.1m long

Glebe 79 Westmoreland Street

East side, between Saint Johns Road and Mitchell Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7.2m long

Glebe 39 Bellevue Street

East side, between Lyndhurst Street and Saint Johns Road Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7m long

Glebe 103 Glebe Street

East side, between Cowper Street and Mitchell Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Glebe 20 Derwent Street

West side, between Catherine Street and Mitchell Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 8.6m long

Glebe 93 Arundel Street

North side, between Forest Street and Lodge Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.2m long

Glebe 71-73 Derwent Street

East side, between Saint Johns Road and Mitchell Street Google Street View

3 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 8.2m long

Glebe 21 Mount Vernon Street

East side, between Saint Johns Road and Catherine Street Google Street View

3 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6.4m long

Haymarket 13 Campbell Street

South side, between Pitt Street and George Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6.4m long

Haymarket 11 Rawson Place

North side, between George Street and Pitt Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 2.8m wide by 5.5m long

Haymarket McKell Building Barlow Street

South side, between Barlow Street and George Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long

Haymarket 2 Quay Street

West side, between Ultimo Road and Hay Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7.1m long

Haymarket 405-411 Sussex Street

East side, between Hay Street to Little Hay Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.7m long

Haymarket Central Station Western Forecourt Railway Colonnade Drive

East side, between Lee Street an Eddy Avenue Google Street View

290-degree parking spaces, 2.5m wide by 5.4m long Managed by RailCorp

Haymarket 10 Quay Street

East side, between Bijou Lane and Thomas Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.8m long

Millers Point 84 Kent Street

East side, between Argyle Street and High Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.3m long

Millers Point 6 Towns Place

N/A, between Dalgety Road and Hickson Road Google Street View

290-degree parking spaces, 2.5m wide by 4.8m long 90 degree angle parking rear to kerb. Vehicles under 6 metres only

Millers Point Nawi Square Lawn Hickson Road

West side, between Towns Place and Napoleon Street Google Street View

290-degree parking spaces, 3.6m wide by 5.2m long

Newtown 16 Brown Street

East side, between Buckland Lane and Bruce Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.3m wide by 4.8m long

Newtown Watkin Street

West side, between Buckland Lane and King Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6.3m long

Newtown 25 Brown Street

West side, between Linthorpe Street and Linthorpe Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.4m long

Newtown 22-28 Wilson Street

South side, between Erskineville Road and Brown Street Google Street View

290-degree parking spaces, 2.6m wide by 5.3m long

Newtown Stephen Street

East side, between Longdown Street and Victoria Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7m long

Newtown Newtown Library Brown Street

East side, between Buckland Lane and Brown Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.3m wide by 5.8m long

Newtown 69 Campbell Street

North side, between Missenden Road and Little Queen Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6.3m long

Newtown 50 O'Connell Street

West side, between Chalder Street and Prospect Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long

Newtown 56 Forbes Street

East side, between Elvy Place and Wilson Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.2m long

Newtown 67 O'Connell Street

East side, between Carillon Street and Campbell Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7.6m long

Paddington 16 Albion Avenue

North side, between South Dowling Street and Selwyn Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7m long

Paddington 26 Josephson Street

South side, between Greens Road and Selwyn Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.7m long

Paddington 1 Oatley Road

West side, between Renny Street and Oatley Road Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.6m long

Potts Point 81 Macleay Street

West side, between Manning Street and Rockwall Crescent Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.7m long

Pyrmont Pirrama Park Pirrama Road

West side, between Harris Street and Jones Bay Road Google Street View

290-degree parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long 90 degree angle parking rear to kerb. Vehicles under 6 metres only

Pyrmont 18 Point Street

East side, between Scott Street and Bowman Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7m long

Pyrmont 9 Harris Street

East side, between Pirrama Road and Pirrama Park Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 7.6m long

Pyrmont Pirrama Park Pirrama Road

North side, between Herbert Street and Jones Bay Wharf Google Street View

290-degree parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long 90 degree angle parking rear to kerb. Vehicles under 6 metres only

Pyrmont 21-27 Jones Street

West side, between Miller Street and Clifftop Walk Google Street View

190-degree parking space, 3.5m wide by 5m long 90 degree angle parking front to kerb

Redfern 103-109 George Street

East side, between Redfern Street and Turner Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.3m wide by 5.8m long

Redfern Boundary Street

South side, between Wyndham Street and Regent Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7.8m long

Redfern 107 Redfern Street

South side, between Pitt Street and George Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long

Redfern 76 George Street

West side, between Wells Street and James Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.4m wide by 5.5m long

Redfern 261 Chalmers Street

East side, between Turner Street and Phillip Street Google Street View

160-degree parking space, 3.4m wide by 5.6m long Rear to kerb parking

Redfern 10 Pitt Street

West side, between Wells Street and James Street Google Street View

160-degree parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long

Redfern 13 Garden Street

West side, between Central Avenue and Locomotive Street Google Street View

390-degree parking spaces, 4m wide by 5.4m long

Redfern 6 Zamia Street

South side, between Baptist Street and Baptist Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.2m long

Redfern 16 Cope Street

West side, between Phillip Street and Turner Street Google Street View

3 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.6m long Mobility parking only, 7am to 5pm Monday to Friday

Redfern 267 Chalmers Street

East side, between Turner Street and Phillip Street Google Street View

160-degree parking space, 3.9m wide by 6m long Rear to kerb parking

Redfern Redfern Police Station Lawson Square

South side, between Regent Street and Gibbons Street Google Street View

160-degree parking space, 3m wide by 5.9m long Police vehicles excepted

Redfern 19 Thurlow Street

South side, between Thurlow Lane and Bourke Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7m long

Rushcutters Bay 31 Roslyn Street

East side, between Ward Avenue and Roslyn Gardens Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7.3m long

St Peters Sydney Park Harber Street

East side, parking bay in Sydney Park Google Street View

290-degree parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long 90 degree angle parking rear to kerb

Surry Hills 11 Ann Street

North side, between Batman Lane and Smith Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long

Surry Hills 120 Chalmers Street

West side, between Chalmers Lane and Rutland Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 7m long Mobility parking only, 10am to 3pm Monday to Friday and 6am to 8pm Saturday to Sunday

Surry Hills 33 Phelps Street

North side, between Kendall Street and Phelps Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.8m long

Surry Hills 63-73 Ann Street

South side, between Riley Street and Lt Riley Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.4m long

Surry Hills Central Station Chalmers Street

East side, between Randle Street and Elizabeth Street Google Street View

3 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Surry Hills 25 Pelican Street

West side, between Goulburn Street and Poplar Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.6m long

Surry Hills 3 Little Norton Street

West side, between Foveaux Street and Fitzroy Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 8.8m long

Surry Hills 624 Crown Street

East side, between Lansdowne Street and Cleveland Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7.5m long

Surry Hills 16 Chapman Street

East side, between Phelps Street and Prospect Street Google Street View

190-degree parking space, 2.5m wide by 5m long Vehicles under 6 metres only

Surry Hills 468 Bourke Street

West side, between Prospect Street and Phelps Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.2m long

Surry Hills Arthur Street

South side, between Crown Street and Tudor Place Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7m long

Sydney 252 Pitt Street

West side, between Druitt Street and Market Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 2.6m wide by 8.7m long Loading zone from 6am to 6pm Monday to Friday and 6am to 10am Saturdays

Sydney Saint Mary's Cathedral College Street

East side, between Cathedral Square and Saint Marys Road Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 2.8m wide by 5.3m long

Sydney 142 Clarence Street

East side, between Market Street and King Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.1m long

Sydney 338 Pitt Street

East side, between Liverpool Street and Central Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.4m wide by 6m long Loading zone from 6am to 10am, Monday to Friday

Sydney Christian Brothers College Cathedral Street

North side, between Cathedral Square and Saint Marys Road Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.8m wide by 6.8m long 4 hour parking, 8am to 6pm

Sydney 32 Grosvenor Street

North side, between Harrington Street and George Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.5m wide by 7.8m long

Sydney 28 Clarence Street

East side, between Margaret Street and Jamison Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 2.6m wide by 6.1m long

Sydney 155 Macquarie Street

West side, between Bent Street and Bridge Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 2.8m wide by 7m long

Sydney 2-6 Barrack Street

North side, between York Lane and Clarence Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 2.6m wide by 6.6m long Loading zone from 6am to 10pm, Monday to Saturday. Mobility parking other times

Sydney 7 Wheat Road

West side, between Harbour Street and Pyrmont Bridge Google Street View

590-degree parking spaces, 3.5m wide by 5.4m long

Sydney Supreme Court of NSW Saint James Road

South side, between Macquarie Street and Elizabeth Street Google Street View

6 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.6m long

Sydney 45-54 Pitt Street

East side, corner of Pitt Street and Bridge Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, m wide by m long Mobility parking only. 2 hour ticketed parking. 6am to 6pm

Sydney 68 Pitt Street

East side, corner of Pitt Street and Hunt Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, m wide by m long Mobility parking only. 2 hour ticketed parking. 6am to 6pm

Sydney Art Gallery of NSW Art Gallery Road

East side, *between Sir John Young Cresc and Prince Albert Rd Google Street View

290-degree parking spaces, 2.7m wide by 5.2m long

Sydney 227 Macquarie Street

West side, between Saint James Road and Martin Place Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 2.9m wide by 6.9m long

Sydney 180 Phillip Street

East side, between Martin Place and King Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6.9m long 4 hour ticketed parking. 8am to 6pm Monday to Friday

Sydney State Library of NSW Shakespeare Place

South side, *between Sir John Young Crescent and Macquarie St Google Street View

4 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.9m long

Sydney 1 Jamison Street

North side, between Clarence Street and York Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.6m long

Sydney Barrack Street

North side, between York Street and York Lane Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 2.6m wide by 7.4m long Loading zone from 6am to 10pm, Monday to Saturday. Mobility parking other times

The Rocks 107 George Street

West side, between Globe Street and Argyle Street Google Street View

3 parallel parking spaces, 3.3m wide by 6.2m long 15 minute drop off only 9am to 6pm

The Rocks 121-127 Harrington Street

East side, between Essex Street and Grosvenor Street Google Street View

3 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6.7m long

The Rocks King George Fifth Recreation Centre Cumberland Street

West side, between Cahill Walk and Gloucester Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.5m wide by 9.4m long

Ultimo 71 Macarthur Street

South side, between Hackett Street and Bulwara Road Google Street View

190-degree parking space, 3.4m wide by 5.4m long 90 degree angle parking front to kerb. Vehicles under 6 metres only

Ultimo Ultimo TAFE Mary Ann Street

South side, between Jones Street and Harris Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 2.2m wide by 5.4m long

Ultimo 292 Jones Lane

East side, between Fig Street Google Street View

190-degree parking space, 3.2m wide by 5m long

Ultimo Bulwara Road

East side, between Macarthur Street and Mary Ann Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7.9m long

Ultimo 80 Upper Fig Street

South side, between Bulwara Road and Jones Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 6.2m long

Ultimo 352 Jones Street

East side, between Fig Lane and Quarry Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.1m long

Ultimo 23 Mountain Street

East side, between Kelly Street and Small Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.6m long

Waterloo 22-26 McEvoy Street

South side, between Hunter Street and Elizabeth Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6.3m long

Waterloo 251 Cope Street

East side, between John Street and McEvoy Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7.8m long

Waterloo 22-26 McEvoy Street

South side, between Hunter Street and Elizabeth Street Google Street View

3 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 7.8m long No parking 4pm to 6pm Monday to Friday

Waterloo Lenton Parade

South side, between Raglan Lane and Wellington Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 7.5m long

Waterloo 43 Wellington Street

North side, between Park Lane and Wellington Lane Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.4m long

Woolloomooloo 18 Crown Street

East side, *between Sir John Young Crescent and Cathedral Str Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 2.2m wide by 8.4m long

Woolloomooloo 13 Nicholson Street

South side, between Maclean Street and Forbes Street Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 7.5m long

Woolloomooloo 153 Dowling Street

West side, between William Street and Reid Avenue Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 5.1m long

Woolloomooloo 52 McElhone Street

East side, between Nesbitt Street and Pring Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6m long

Woolloomooloo 128 McElhone Street

East side, between Windeyer Street and Rae Place Google Street View

2 parallel parking spaces, 3.2m wide by 5.8m long

Zetland 17 Hansard Street

South side, between Emmanuel Lane and Dunning Avenue Google Street View

160-degree parking space, 3.4m wide by 5.8m long

Zetland 65 Portman Street

West side, between Hansard Street and Merton Street Google Street View

1 parallel parking space, 3.2m wide by 6m long	